Stepan Bandera Andrijowycz , Ukrainian Степан Андрійович Бандера (born 1 January 1909 in the village Uhrynów old , died. 15 October 1959 in Munich ) - Ukrainian independence-minded policies of the extreme nationalist , the part of the researchers described as fascist [1] [2] , one of the leaders of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists , since 1940 the leader of one of the two existing factions of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists - OUN-B (later a separate organization).
Posthumously awarded by President Viktor Yushchenko title of Hero of Ukraine , presidential decree was repealed by a final decision of the District Administrative Court in Donetsk [3] . 2 August 2011 , the Ukraine's Supreme Administrative Court upheld the decision of the court Donetsk.
Co-created by the Bandera faction of the OUN-B is responsible for the organized genocide of Polish civilians in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia , which claimed the lives of at least 100 thousand. persons.Family [ Edit ]
Born into a family pastor Greek Catholic Andriy Bandera and Myrosławy home Głodzinśkiej (daughter of Greek-Catholic priest). Paternal family were farmers and did not conduct political activities (with the exception of his father, who was a Member of Parliament ZUNR ). Maternal family while engaged in political and social activities - one of the uncles, Pavlo Głodzinśkyj , was one of the founders of Masłosojuzu and Silśkoho Hospodar , another uncle, Jaroslaw Wesołowśkyj , he was a member of the parliament in Vienna.
Stepan was the second child in the family - he was older than Martha, a junior Oleksandr , Volodymyr, Wasyl , Oksana, Bohdan and Myroslav (died in infancy).
May 22, 1941 the NKVD in connection with father's son arrested Stepan Bandera - Fr. Andriy Bandera , that the investigation had been murdered by the NKVD in Kiev, July 10, 1941. The same day, the NKVD arrested Stepan sisters: Mary-Martha and Oksana. Both were deported to the Krasnoyarsk Krai as a family enemy of the people . Were released from exile in 1960, without the right to return to Ukraine. Martha died in Siberia in 1982, Oksana in 1989 were allowed to return to Ukraine, where she died in 2008. The third sister, Stepan - Volodymyr was arrested by the NKVD in 1946, sentenced to 10 years in a labor camp , after the judgment has returned to Ukraine in 1956.
Brothers, Vasily and Oleksandr , arrested by the Gestapo in 1941, died in 1942, murdered in the concentration camp at Auschwitz .
Andriy Bandera, Bandera's only son came to Canada in 1961. Here, after graduating from high school, he studied political science at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg [4] . His son and grandson of Stepan Bandera, the Stepan (born 1970 in Winnegam in Canada ) [5] , in January 2010, received at the hands of the President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko, Ukraine's highest state decoration: Order your given to his grandfather with the title of Hero of Ukraine.
Childhood and youth [ edit ]
Stepan primary school did not attend due to the outbreak of World War I and the appointment of teachers to the army, he studied with siblings at home. In 1919, he enrolled in high school in Stryj , where his grandparents lived. In the same year he began efforts to join the Plast , but due to poor health (rheumatism) [ citation needed ] until he was taken in the third class of high school in 1922. In the spring of 1922 his mother died of tuberculosis Stepan. Junior High School and graduated in 1927. After graduating from high school Stepan planned to study at the Ukrainian Academy of Commerce in Poděbrady , but the Polish authorities failed to issue him a passport, and a year spent in a family Uhrynowie, engaging in social activity - led community center Prosvita , amateur theater, sang in the choir, was the founder of the wheel Luhua and co-founder of the cooperative.
In September 1928 he enrolled in the Faculty of Agriculture and Lasowy Lviv Polytechnic . The first two years he studied in Lviv, the next two in Dublany , which housed the headquarters of the Faculty of Agriculture and Lasowego . After 8 semesters received a discharge , but in connection with a lively underground activity (arrest, processes) are not defended diploma. During his studies, he was friendly to people who think like him, however, had a completely different attitude to the people, "not ideological." About them spoke contemptuously: "Dark nation. Ni czytaty than pisaty "colleagues from college who were not interested in politics he refused to shake hands [6] .
The origins of political activity [ Edit ]
Flag In 1927, he joined the Ukrainian Military Organization (UWO), which since 1920 has acted illegally in Poland . Initially working in the interview, then the propaganda department. The first time he was arrested, along with his father, moreover, on 14 November 1928 in Kalush , for distributing leaflets UWO. He was also a Union of Ukrainian Nationalist Youth .
From 1929 he was a member of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists , participated in the conference circuit Stryiskyi CNS. At the beginning of the organization clashed with her ​​various opinions as to the objectives of the organization and methods of their implementation. Stepan stood out in the organization of social activity - work in "Silśkim Hospodarze", "Luhua", " Falcon-Batku "Ukrainian Students' Sports Club, student organizations.
In 1930, after the reorganization of the National Prowodu CNS, and a series of arrests of activists, strengthened the role of the National Executive of the CNS, and her boss Flag awarded the job distribution. In the same year a member of the Executive of, and a colleague from the Flag "Plast" - Stepan Ochrymowycz , Bandera referent appointed executive propaganda. In addition to the activities of propaganda, Flag dealt with the organization of anti-trust shares (having deplete the Polish state revenues from the excise tax), as well as oversee the educational campaign directed against schools utrakwistycznym.
From 1931 he was the maintenance of communications with foreign Prowodem CNS and UWO, in contact with the main figures of the Ukrainian independence movement. At the beginning of 1932 he was arrested while illegally crossing the Polish-Czechoslovak border. Flag In July 1932 he took part in the conference CNS Prague . In the same year he spent three months in custody in connection with the murder of the police commissioner Czechowski, was released for lack of evidence. During the arrest, the management of the CNS Bohdan Kordiuka , Bandera was reserved for Deputy National Chairman of the CNS.
In 1933 he became director of Stepan Bandera Executive of the National. Thanks to the support of young activists has been approved for the position by Prowid CNS at a conference in Prague on 3-6 June 1933 (at this conference also decided to merge eventually UWO and CNS). Chairman of the Executive of a year - from June 1933 to June 1934 arrest.
By this means the beginning of the 30s CNS intensified terrorist activities, especially individual terror. Characteristic for the selection of objectives attacks was that they fell victim to a large extent, Ukrainians and Poles looking for Polish-Ukrainian agreement, including Tadeusz Hołówko [7] , Ivan Babij .
The [ edit ]


Press Release from the start of the murder trial of Bronislaw Pieracki November 20, 1935.
Gregory Rossoliński-Liebe describes two processes Stepan Bandera:
Stepan Bandera in the first trial in Warsaw, which took place from 18 November 1935 to 13 January 1936, drew the attention of the media and society, including the fact that he was a national prowidnykiem CNS, and therefore the most important stop of the defendants, and asked him to respond to Prosemikewicza questions by the judge is not in Polish, which is the official language, but in Ukrainian, which forbade the right. It was to be removed from the courtroom. The resistance posed by the police and shouted conspicuously password Ukrainian propaganda and insults at the court and the Polish state, which undermined the reputation of the court. In this way, tried to flag international media attention to the problem of Ukraine in the Polish state, and he became a "hero" and "martyr" in the eyes of both radical and fanatical of their peers in the CNS, as well as persons not connected with the organization. Went even further Flag on the second lawsuit, which was held in Lviv from 25 May to 27 June 1936. At the hearing, the accused could speak Ukrainian, which motivated him to delivering monologues and creating propaganda for the fearless leader of the CNS, which seems cold-blooded death sentences on Polish or Ukrainian politicians who, in his eyes, "betray the Ukrainian people." These nationalist propaganda speeches and behavior of Bandera, and to a lesser extent other defendants, mixed with fascist rituals of the CNS, which was trying to practice the ideology of fascism, to give the impression of a strong and numbering organization in Europe. Such behavior was demonstrative including Bandera treatment by the defendants as members of OUN leader, welcoming in the courtroom greeting "Ukrajini Fame", or committed murder trial ID cards own code of values, according to which only the CNS knows what is good and what is bad for Ukrainian nation and has the right to kill all those who threaten the implementation of its plan, which is to create a Ukrainian state, the introduction of the fascist dictatorship and the subordination of the whole society [8] . ,
Stepan Bandera was January 13, 1936, sentenced to death, which is based on an amnesty commuted to life in prison for arranging the assassination of Interior Minister Bronislaw Pieracki . Flag, as well as other defendants, lawyers defended: Leo Hankewycz and Oleksandr Pawenćkyj from Lviv, Volodymyr Horbowyj of the Valley , and Jaroslaw Szlapak with Stanisławów . The penalty was held in prison for Holy Cross and in Wronki . As a result, the attitude of the trial and judgment, twenty-five at the time of arrest Flag became the idol of the young generation of Ukrainians, their peers [9] .
 Main article: Assassination of Bronislaw Pieracki .
After the conviction of the Ukrainian underground Bandera planned share it with reflection Wronki prison . The initiators of the shares were Zenon Kossak , Ivan Rawłyk and Roman Shukhevych , but the then President of the National Executive of the CNS Rebet Leo did not consent to the action, fearing the Polish police provocation, as a result of which he could die the same flag. Prison authorities after being informed of the planned reflection Bandera, moved him to a prison in Brest. There, as well as to a prison in Siedlce, the Polish authorities transported before the war all imprisoned activists CNS, serving time in prison western Polish.
After the assassination of Yevhen Konovalets in May 1938 by an agent of the NKVD Paul Sudoplatov , Konovalets successor was Andriy Melnyk as the head of a foreign board of CNS (Central prowidnyka), and since August 1939 the main prowidnyk CNS, in favor of close cooperation with Germany.
Years 1939-1941 [ edit ]
Before the attack of the Third Reich in Poland, around Easter 1939, Bandera was transferred to a prison in Brest, which was released 10 [10] or 13 [11] September 1939, in the face of the deteriorating situation on the front and the bombing of a prisoner by the Germans. Flag went on foot, back roads, in the direction of the city. In the district of Kovel made ​​contact with terrain mesh CNS and Sokal - CNS field of management. The Sokal , accompanied by Dmytro Majiwśkiego went to Lvov (now occupied by the Soviets), where he arrived on 27 September. He met in secret with known Ukrainian political and social activists. In Lviv, stayed for about two weeks, overseeing the expansion of the underground grid CNS in Galicia. In the second half of October Stepan Bandera, along with his brother Basil (who had just returned released from the camp in Bereza Kartuska ) and four activists of the CNS, illegally crossed the border line of the occupation of the Soviet-German in the Second Republic and went to Krakow .
At that time, the CNS was growing internal conflict between a group of young activists who have gained experience in underground work in the country and the older activists staying in exile, with Andriy Melnykiem at the helm. This conflict has become the basis for a split in the CNS CNS fraction (B) (Stepan Bandera, Leo Rebet, Jaroslaw Stetsko - Bandera) and CNS (M) ( melnykowcy ) [12] . Andriy Melnyk collaboration with the Germans treated strategically (in the tradition of the Austro-Hungarian), and Stepan Bandera and his colleagues treated her instrumentally - as a tool for the creation of an independent Ukrainian state. According to Richard Torzeckiego invoking the central nervous system associated with the historian Petra Mirczuka [13] In September 1939, the so-called. Prowid National (National Board) under the leadership of the CNS Lion Rebet categorically refused to execute the command of a foreign board of CNS (under the direction of A. Melnyk) to initiate anti-Polish uprising as a diversion in favor of Germany . Rebet lion had to be careful that in the face of the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact will this action solely in the interests of the Soviet Union , which he considered to be the main enemy of Ukraine [14] .
Stepan Bandera after a short stay at the spa for Slovakia , he went to Vienna , where he made ​​contact with the local branch, and then Prowodem CNS. After meeting with Volodymyr Tymczijem , the then national prowidnykiem CNS, they went together to Italy for a meeting with Andriy Melnykiem, leader of the CNS. After unsuccessful negotiations with Melnykiem has a split in the CNS.
February 10, 1940, in Krakow, there was a meeting of leading members of the CNS. At the meeting it was decided to create a revolutionary faction OUN (OUN-R), also known by the names of Bandera - OUN-B. In April 1941, the OUN-B Krakow organized II Extraordinary Congress of Great CNS. Selected for the chairman (Central Prowidnyka Prowodu), which was Stepan Bandera [15] .
 Main article: The division of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists .
After the split was necessary to set up a grouping of Bandera new security structure. Therefore, in 1940, the flag with Stepan Łenkawskym a secret meeting decided to set up Bezpeky Service. It dealt with rozpracowywaniem and fighting factions melnykowskiej CNS discovery of Soviet agents, collecting information about possible German repression targeting OUN-B and counteracting them rozpracowywaniem Polish underground and internal control of the OUN-B. Since 1943 the OUN-B also took an active part in the mass killings of the Polish population [16] .
 Main article: CNS Security Service .
During your stay in Krakow Flag met his future wife - Jaroslaw Opariwśką . In mid-1940 in the Church of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross in Krakow, got married and then moved to Warsaw, where he lived in an apartment rented by Mykola Lebed, under a false name Hutsul. At the beginning of 1941 Stepan Bandera returned to Krakow and to his wife Sanok , where he was born 26 May 1941 their daughter Natalia.
In March 1941, Stepan Bandera with his colleague, the head of the OUN-B of the General Government , Roman Shukhevych formed in consultation with the Abwehr battalion made ​​up of Ukrainians, "Nachtigall" , under the command of German (from the Ukrainian deputy commander of a Roman Shukhevych). Formed a second battalion of Ukrainian - "Roland" , made ​​up of members of OUN-M and former soldiers of the Ukrainian People's Republic . Together they form the so-called. Teams of Ukrainian Nationalists in the Wehrmacht .
After the German attack on the Soviet Union and leaving Lviv by the Red Army entered the city on June 30 1941 in the morning were the first soldiers of the battalion, "Nachtigall". On the same day in the building Prosvita in Lviv OUN-B , to the surprise of the Germans, has announced the declaration of independence of Ukraine ( Ukrainian State Act renewal ), the provisional capital of Lviv and the Ukrainian government appointed Prime Minister Jaroslaw Stetsko . many of the city on advertising pillars ponaklejano signed by " Ukrainian National Committee of the "large posters, which in German and Ukrainian greeted the victorious German Wehrmacht and expressed the expectation that it will soon be set free and independent Ukrainian state. Slogan, which was at the same time on everyone's lips was "Long live Hitler and Stepan Bandera - the death of Jews and Communists " [17] . That day started a pogrom of Jews in Lviv which killed about 4 thousand. Jews.
You proclaimed by the OUN-B lasted only 12 days. The whole composition of the government, was arrested by the Germans, and the flag was detained in Krakow in house arrest , and then with the Steck, Roman Ilnyćkym and Volodymyr Stachiwem returned to Berlin . They all staying under house arrest filed with the free foot testimony of the Reich Security Main Office [18] . 16 July 1941, Hitler joined the District of Galicia to the General Government. Protested against this decision in a letter to the Minister Ribbentrop of 22 July 1941, Metropolitan Andriy Szeptyćkyj . The protest also issued Senior Council [19] . A week later, Hitler established a separate Reich Commissariat Ukraine , thus sealing the administrative division of the occupied territories of the USSR.
The arrest and stay in a concentration camp 1941-1944 [ edit ]
Adolf Hitler was strongly opposed to the concept of the creation of the Ukrainian state, wishing all the Slavs converted into slave labor empire of the Third Reich. During the final discussions conducted in September 1941 in Berlin, in the former building of the Polish Embassy between representatives of the Abwehr and the CNS (B), both Stepan Bandera and Yaroslav Stetsko flatly refused to appeal the declaration of independence of Ukraine. As a result, they were on September 15 1941 incarcerated in Spandau prison in [20] . Later Stetsko Flag and were taken to the concentration camp in Sachsenhausen and placed in special ward for prisoners so. Zellenbau, where he also lived, among others first commander of the Army Rowecki , chancellor of Austria, Kurt Schuschnigg , the Prime Minister of France, Edouard Daladier . In Zellenbau political prisoners have much better living conditions than other prisoners: they were exempt from appeals, could receive parcels have access to the papers [21] . Various dates are given in the Sachsenhausen embed Flags: March 1943 [22] and October 1943 [20] . Bandera himself claimed that he came to the camp in 1943 [23] .
The entire steering OUN-B activity was also arrested and imprisoned in the prisons and concentration camps of the Third Reich [24] . Battalions "Roland" and "Nachtigall" was resolved in August 1941.
According to the memoirs Yevhen Stachiwa , at the end of 1941 (ie during their stay in Bandera and Stecki prison in Spandau ) took on the responsibilities of holding the Berlin prowidnyka Mykola Łebediowi sent him a letter of Stepan Bandera. The document prowodu arrested members of OUN (b) have warned against conducting any operations against the Germans, considering them to be harmful and say that you should somehow fix Ukrainian-German relations [25] . Grzegorz Motyka says that the letter fell into the hands Stachiwa at the beginning of the year 1942 [26] . According to the author it is difficult to clearly determine whether a letter Bandera in some way influenced the decisions taken in the spring of 1942 at the Second Conference of the OUN-B, the Bandera decided to continue to be regarded as the main enemy of the Soviet Union and the Third Reich propaganda to fight only as a last resort by resort for military action [27] .
Developed by the institute Yad Vashem Encyclopedia also in the camp, while Bandera was able to maintain contact with colleagues [28] , the same shall ne'er Czeslaw [29] . On the other hand, Grzegorz Motyka in their work Ukrainian partisans 1942-1960 states that the flag was not at that time in contact with the organization [30] .
Two brothers Stepan Bandera ( Vasil and Oleksandr ) after his arrest at the end of 1941 by the Gestapo in July 1942, died in a concentration camp in Auschwitz [31]
Bandera subjects underwent massive repression German autumn 1941 to conspiracy, organizing the beginning of 1943, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army . Melnykowcy decided to continue cooperation with Germany and participated in organization of the 1943 14 SS Grenadier Division .
Since March 1943, the UPA led by the OUN-B, launched a genocide Polish civilians in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia. The aim was ethnic cleansing of the Ukrainian state in the future of the Polish population, which had a clear claim to the Polish Volhynia and Eastern Galicia. As a result, in Volhynia were killed 50-60 thousand. Poles in Galicia from 20-25 to 60 thousand.
 Main articles: Volhynia Slaughter and  Ethnic Cleansing in Eastern Galicia .


German identity card with a photograph of Stepan Bandera and fingerprints, issued in the name of Stephen Popiel, Starnberg 1946
Political activities in exile [ edit ]
In Sachsenhausen Stepan Bandera stayed until 27 September 1944, the imprisoned leader of the OUN (B) were dismissed by the Nazis in concentration camps [32] . Grzegorz Motyka believes that this may be linked to the conclusion at the time of the informal agreement between the UPA and Germany diversionary cooperation on intelligence against the Soviet Union [33] . Flag Freed joined in the consultations of the Ukrainian émigré political parties on the appointment of co-operating with the Germans Ukrainian National Committee .
In January 1945, expressed its willingness Flag return to Ukraine and to take part in the fighting. Therefore, 5 and 6, February, Central conference held Prowodu CNS. It was considered that the arrival of Bandera is a big risk for him. As an icon of Ukrainian nationalism had to organize international support for the Ukrainian underground. At the end of 1945 Shukhevych resigned as head of the CNS, and the flag was elected President of the Bureau Prowodu [34] .
Flag lived in Munich , in the American zone of occupation , hiding under the name of Stephen Popiel [35] . In 1947, the U.S. military counter-intelligence (CIC) described him as extremely dangerous , constantly on the move, often in the guise of [36] . He remained in close contact with former Nazis, and its protection were accounted for SS [37] . CIC undertook extensive research attempts to Bandera, but they ended in failure. Failed attempts to find the Soviet Flag and kidnapping in 1946 [38] .
Also worked in exile team UHWR represented by Lebed and Ivan Hryniocha . Since his return to the activities of Bandera did not accept this "democratization" of the OUN-B, it was hard to find him in the role of a symbolic leader who in fact had little impact on the actions of the CNS. This gave rise to conflicts and as a result, in February 1946 , the in Munich to a ZCz CNS , led by Bandera. In August 1948, Bandera and his followers threw the Extraordinary Conference of the CNS ZCz UHWR members who refused to accept the dictatorial rule of Bandera [39] . The conflict between the flag and the Lebed was so rapid that during one of the talks threatened to Bandera Gun Lebed, in a rematch Flag supporters ordered his killing Lebed, what did not happen [40] .
Central Prowid CNS sitting in Ukraine called on both sides to end the feud and unite. This position led to the departure of Bandera in 1950 as Chairman and alleviate the dispute. Flag even though it still had a significant influence on the CNS ZCz action, directing him "behind the scenes". In 1953, there was a re-conflict resulting in the lion Rebet established a new structure - the central nervous system-Z [41] .
In contrast to American intelligence, which recognized a person incredible Bandera, Bandera was recognized British intelligence . Since 1949, MI6 became a prominent CNS ZCz provide financial and logistical support. Agents were trained and sent them by air to release USSR . This provoked opposition CIA and the State Department , the more that agents Bandera fought competitive spy network Hrynioch-Lebed group supported by the U.S. [42] . Yet MI6 sponsored Bandera until 1954 [43] .
As a result, the British broke up the Soviet provocation ZCz cooperation with the CNS. Flag Group continued its activities on their own, funding his spy network fake dollars. Published their own newspaper and used terror against political opponents. West German police estimated that until 1960 Bandera group made ​​after the war in the FRG about 100 murders [44] . ZCz CNS were temporarily help the Italian military intelligence (SIFAR) at the beginning of 1956. In March of this year, offered his services to Flag West German intelligence service (BND) in exchange for money and weapons. Despite warnings from the CIA Germany have established the cooperation. This gave him protection intentions Bavarian government and the local police, who were preparing action against the organization because of a variety of crimes - from fraud to kidnapping people [45] .
Led by the Soviet intelligence game Bandera and sustained illusion of the existence of BND strong Ukrainian underground. Ukraine and Polish were still sent couriers and several people militants. This activity caused irritation of the Soviet authorities. In 1957, Nikita Khrushchev ordered the assassination of leaders in exile CNS - Lion Rebet of CNS-Z and Stepan Bandera [46] .
Death [ edit ]
Stepan Bandera was killed on October 15 1959 year coup made ​​in Munich by an agent of the KGB Bohdan Staszynskiego [47] using a special spray gun cyanide [48] . Staszynski after fleeing to the West in 1960 in a public trial skrytobójczego confessed to the murder at the behest of the Kremlin, the other leader of the Ukrainian emigration - Lion Rebet . Flag for killing Staszynski received from Khrushchev Order of the Red Banner (as Ramón Mercader Order of Lenin for the murder of Trotsky ). Staszyńskiego testimony shook the Kremlin. As a result, the position of the scandal Staszynskiego lost KGB chief Alexander Shelepin , who was replaced by Vladimir Siemiczastny . The Soviet authorities, fearing another similar fiasco, stated publicly that they will no longer kill their enemies abroad. For a long time the word adhered to - in the Kremlin surrendered are aware that the damage caused in the international arena as a result of exposing the assassination may outweigh the benefits arising from the liquidation of the next opponent.
Bandera [ edit ]

From the name of Stepan Bandera a common name comes Bandera , which determines the Ukrainian supporters of his party - the OUN-B . Poles in the memories while using the term to mean Bandera Stepan Bandera followers - upowców , their neighbors and all Ukrainians, even those who do not identify with the flag and carried out mass killings of Polish civilians. This term is also used by some historians [49] .
Modern evaluation [ edit ]



Ukrainian mail stamp issued in 2009 on the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Stepan Bandera


Monument to Stepan Bandera in Brzeżany .


Sektorówka showing the image of Stepan Bandera with the word "FLAG - OUR HERO" during the match Ukrainian football clubs: Karpaty Lviv vs. Shakhtar Donetsk (15 April 2010)
According to Grzegorz Motyka , though he immediately Flag is not responsible for the slaughter of Volhynia, because then he was imprisoned in a German concentration camp [50] , is undoubtedly a moral responsibility because they committed crimes created by the fraction of the CNS, where members of his name were called " banderowcami " . However, Ukrainians are looking at him as a man who for a free Ukraine sat for several years, first in Polish prisons, and then in the Nazi concentration camp in Sachsenhausen. As a result, after the war in the U.S. are able to present itself as the victim of the Nazis .
In 2009, Ukraine took place, causing much controversy in Poland, the bike ride. Stepan Bandera. Also in the same year on July 13 at the Museum of Ethnography and Crafts in Lviv presents the first volume of three-volume edition of "Anthology of Ukrainian nationalism", issued on the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the CNS and the 100th anniversary of the birthday of Stepan Bandera. It includes the work of theorists of Ukrainian nationalism, including, according to the portal www.zaxid.net, Stepan Bandera [51] .
January 20, 2010 the President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko signed a decree № 46/2010 that "the steadfastness of spirit in defense of the national idea, for heroism and sacrifice in the struggle for an independent Ukrainian State" [52] was given posthumously to Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine . President Yushchenko issued a decree on January 22 at a ceremony Unity Day [53] [54] .
The President's decision, which constitutes, in the opinion of Tadeusz Olszanski crowning Viktor Yushchenko's political history during the presidency [55] , caused controversy in Ukraine. The representative of the Party of Regions deputy Vadim Kolesniczenko found that it leads to a split of the country [56] . Opinions of members of the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc on the granting of the title were divided [57] . We strongly negative to give Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine addressed the east of Ukraine. Social Organization "supervision" of Odessa , in a letter to the Polish ambassador, even apologized to Poland for president's decision [58] . To the east of Ukraine there are doubts as to the legality of the decree to grant the title of Hero of Ukraine, due to the fact that the statute provides for the award giving her only the citizens of Ukraine and S.Bandera was a Polish citizen [59] . The Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia issued a declaration condemning: "it is obvious that in such a way, President Yushchenko to the" heroism and sacrifice "include the murder of Jews and Poles massively effected by Bandera and his spopleczników" [60] . International Agency Jewish Simon Wiesenthal Center sent us a letter the Ambassador of Ukraine to the United States in which he expressed "profound outrage" in connection with the diploma of honor of Hero of Ukraine "Stepan Bandera, who collaborated with the Nazis in the early stages of the Second World War, and whose followers were linked to the murder of thousands of Jews " [61] .
4 February 2010, their opposition to the glorification of Stepan Bandera and the OUN-UPA members expressed the President of Poland, Lech Kaczynski [62] . A day later, before the Ukrainian embassy and consulates in Warsaw, Poland, Ukraine held a protest demanding the borderland communities by the Ukrainian authorities condemn the ideology of nationalist [63] .
25 February 2010 the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Ukraine, which specifically referred to the situation in the country and confirmed its European aspirations. The 20th point resolution criticized give Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine [64] :
The European Parliament (...) expresses its deep regret at the decision by the outgoing President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, posthumously Stepan Bandera, the leader of Nazi Germany cooperates with the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), the title of Hero of Ukraine , therefore, hopes that new Ukrainian leadership will reconsider such decisions and will maintain its commitment to European values ​​[65] ;
Parliament resolution met with disapproval from the peripheral boards of Western Ukraine [66] .
March 5, 2010 100 of the 450 deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine partnership, mainly faction Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense and the Yulia Tymoshenko Bloc , returned to Jerzy Buzek, the President of the European Parliament official request for reconsideration of a resolution in this regard by the European Parliament .
European Parliament resolution of Stepan Bandera ws. Ukrainians receives the right to self-determination and reduces the popularity of the idea of European integration among its supporters in Ukraine. (...) Bandera collaborated with the Nazis, and his two brothers were killed in Auschwitz, and the years he spent World War II in a concentration camp in Sachsenhausen. (...) For several generations of Ukrainians Flag is a symbol of patriotism and independence of the Ukrainian state. "Criminals" and "satellite" Hitler made ​​him a communist propaganda, aimed at conflicts within Ukrainians from Poles and Russians [67] .
- Posted Ukrainian parliament in a letter to the chairman of Europarliament. The letter was signed by, among others Member of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense, former Foreign Minister Borys Tarasyuk , Andriy Szkil of the Bloc of Yulia Tymoshenko , the leader of the Crimean Tatars Mustafa Dżemilew (NU-LS), and brother, Viktor Yushchenko, Petro Yushchenko [67] .
March 11, 2010 one of the most important Jewish organizations in the world, the Anti-Defamation League called on the President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych to take the title "Hero of Ukraine" Stepan Bandera, "who fought with the Nazis against the Soviets during World War II and was directly involved in the crimes against the Jews and Poles " [68] .
March 25, 2010 was published the letter that Viktor Yushchenko came to Jerzy Buzek, the President of the European Parliament, presenting their views and motives award Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine [69] .
In a survey conducted in March 2010, the Group sociological "Rating" 53% of Ukrainians in favor of canceling the decree granting the title hero of Ukraine Stepan Bandera. 28% is due to the retention of the Flag, and 19% had no opinion. The biggest supporters of the granting of the decree canceled Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine, according to the survey, are the communists [70] .
2 April 2010 the Regional Administrative Court of Donetsk lifted the decree to grant the title of Hero of Ukraine Stepan Bandera. In support of the court said that the title was granted unlawfully, because according to the Law on the title of Hero of Ukraine, it can only be given to a citizen of Ukraine [71] . In response to the ruling authorities of the western regions of Ukraine expressed their firm opposition and activists of the nationalist Freedom Party threatened to "march on Kiev and the removal of the current government by force." Yuri Michalciszyn, member of the Lviv City Council said: Banderowska army Dnieper flows through and throw in Kiev Donetsk bandits [72] .
Stepan Bandera was at the hands of city councils honorary citizenship of the Ukrainian authorities of many cities in what is now western Ukraine (the number of which is growing), they include Luck [73] , Lions [74] , Ivano-Frankivsk (former Stanisławów) [75 ] , Ternopil [76] , Truskavets [77] , Kovel [78] , Sokal [78] , Czerwonogród (formerly Ruska [78] , Kuźniecowsk [84] , Kolomyia [84] , Valley [84] , Stebnik [84] , Skole [84] , Morsztyn [84] , Wołświn [85] , Churches [85] .
For contributions to the Ukraine Stepan Bandera also built monuments in cities such as: Stanisławów [86] , Drohobych [86] , uncle [86] , Boryslav [87] , Kolomyia [87] , Stoneware Strumiłowa [87] , doubles [86] , Mościska [86] , Uhrynów old [86] , Lions [88] , Ternopil [89] , Buchach [87] , Strusów [87] , Sambor (dedicated for 11 priests of the local church) [90] . Another image showing the construction of memorials are planned in Bandera Luck [91] , Cherkassy [87] , and Equal , Kyiv and Chernivtsi [90] .
 Main article: Monument to Stepan Bandera in Lviv .
Stepan Bandera also has a few museums dedicated to his character, they are situated in such Stryj , Uhrynowie old , Dublany , as well as in London .
 Main articles: Ukrainian historical policy and  Ukrainian nationalism .