June ,  As for the xenophobic statements Bandera

Source: 
Author: Dyukov - historian, author of "Why fight the Soviet people" and "The Myth of Genocide: The repression of the Soviet authorities in Estonia."
Text: June ,  Chapter OUN (B) S. Bandera appealed to his supporters to not require any comments slogan: "The people! Know! Moscow, Poland, Madjar, Jews - Tse Tvoï gate of. Needy ix! Lyahiv, zhidiv, komunistiv znischuy without mercy! "
Before you rush headlong to insert this info in stattyu, asked to look more authoritative sources, but to allow myself to say it "nonsense" comrade Dyukova. He simply rehash, what was once already been invented and written by Yakovlev. By the way, there are always small driveways here at just such historians. For example the word fields up to the war in the territory of modern western Ukraine were not used. 
Here most of the leaflet:
Corman to direct knizі fotokopіyu zvernennya Stepan Bandera in Lviv yak rozpovsyudzhuvalos s  to  chervnya Lipno  p. at viglyadі letyuchok that afіsh: "People! Know! Moscow, flattered Madjar, zhidi - the gate of tvoї! Znischuy їh". In іnshіy іnterpretatsії tsya listіvka was: "Lyahіv, zhidіv, komunіstіv znischuy without mercy, not zhalіy vorogіv ukraїnskoї narodnoї revolyutsії".
 
Note the date. Second 
Wha
Give a link confirmed by ) the words of writing in a leaflet, ) that the leaflet 
P.S. On the first point, I even had helped to above gave a link to an anti-orardzh, which indicates how to find those given photocopied flyers. 
I have already given a link that you delete it from vandalism xenophobic bias. 
Dyuko
Dyukov AR - An excellent historian. "No authority," he only banderofilov who do not like documentaries exposing their favorite icons. ... :,  December  (UTC) Associate
Explaine
VP: AI must read ... :,  May  (UTC) Sergei
I suggest before you continue

I suggest before you continue the discussion, all carefully review this article:


obkom.net.ua 

It may be the facts and documents from the article discussed, not the site?


Bandera is not a word, we read in the appropriate manner before the war, in June , the OUN I.Klymivym edge guide - "The Legend" was prepared and "Vіdozva" the Ukrainian people, plastered on all afishnyh posts immediately after the occupation Lvovav. It explicitly stated: "The people! Know! Moscow, flattered, Madjar, Jews 
Yes, Moscow, flattered, Madjar, Jews 
In this quotation, "As the memories Ya Stetsko, Bandera brokered by Richard Yary shortly before the war had secretly met with Admiral Canaris, head of the Abwehr. During the meeting, Bandera, according Stetsko" very clearly presented the Ukrainian position, finding a certain understanding ... the Admiral, who had promised to support the Ukrainian political concept, believing that only in its implementation can be a German victory over Russia "(Ya Stetsko. June ,  - Toronto, . - S. )." - Do not specify a page right - in fact page  (see 
Do not quite understand why it was not tried at Nuremberg tribunal for crimes against humanity ...> <... :,  June  (UTC) Dmitriy
Explanation: Nuremberg never judged collaboration. There were tried Largest German war criminals. Make small trash like native traitors were not considered because it was decided that this is an internal matter and the internal jurisdiction of the countries concerned. In Nuremberg, with Laval and Petain and Quisling's not mentioned, but it does not mean that they - not traitors, collaborators. ... :,  December  (UTC) Associate
To complete the picture suggested in section of public opinion to write about: "A significant part of the population of Ukraine (mainly western region) considers him a hero, and so on and so on, but at the same time, much of the population of Ukraine, living in the South and East of Ukraine, believes it one of the bloodiest terrorists. " Like this, maybe ...
sugges
guys, comments: Ukraine as a  - take a map of Ukraine holds the line on the west and south to the Northeast (cues with the area left on the right) - and thus the left side of this zapadentsy (Bandera hero) and right (Bandera killer).
what is it I am not correct to write "significant" and "substantial" (read not as it should) 
PS: sorry, grieved, general ignorance, narrow-mindedness, prejudice (and including my) annoying.
Jams
An
public opinion

propos

I totally agree. Anyway the article would have much to clean and cut, and that is not an encyclopedia, and a eulogy. I would cut myself yes "svidomity" howling raise that touched their favorite tchotchke, contact reluctance. - ... :,  December  (UTC) Associate //
Neutrality

This VI or www.stepanbandera.org?
Page recalls creation "FOR SCHO MI Favorite Bandera" (Father Igor Kings) Quote only Jaroslaw Baranowski, Assistant Public Relations provides a brief history of the OUN (b) which pohlesche brief history of the CPSU (B) will be. In addition to the actual text of the AI ​​on the subject of the matter 
Reliability

In addition to "formal charges" OUN-R Yaroslav Baranovsky who "came out" as much in August  is still a lot of mythological moments of the period  - year. Negligible favorite quotes from the Nuremberg Tribunal against the OUN (konretnee and B).

Bandera supposed to rely only on themselves, because, in his view, the independence of Ukraine was not interested no Western power
Here is an entertaining quote
Well that sogodnі vsomu hreschenomu mirovі vіdomo scho nіhto іnshy Til'ky yakraz "banderіvtsі" Mali domovlennya chastinoyu nіmetskogo s General Staff, scho pіdpirali їh deyakі nіmetskі vіyskovі stake nіkomu іnshomu s-pomіzh ukraїntsіv Til'ky yakraz Organіzatsії Stepan Bandery have allowed two tvoriti vіyskovі vіddіli s napіv -i command of Óêðà navіt robili їm deyakі polіtichnі nadії. Write about those i sami teperіshnі kolishnі "banderіvtsі"  i dumb in that anі nіchogo secret, anі dumb chogo vіdpekuvatisya soromitisya of chi. Vistane poklikatisya here for brochure bp. "Squads Ukraїnskih Natsіonalіstіv Rokach in -", "Our Knigozbіrnya," Part , Munich, . Krіm, in desyatirіchchya vibuhu nіmetsko-bolshevitskoї vіyni nadrukovano in "Ukraїnskomu Samostіyniku" kіlkanadtsyat rіznih stattey spogadіv i s of an hour. There skrіz znaydemo proof domovlennya banderіvtsіv s nіmtsyami, chogo stench in addition chasі vzhe not vіdpekuvalisya. To take the butt-Perche lіpshu s quiet stattey from eg., Єvgena Stakhov "Mіsіya SWNTs have Varshavі" in one s numbers "Ukrayinsky Samostіynika" for mіsyats serpen .
For April-May  - no quotes from famous instructions OUN
"In times of chaos and confusion can afford to eliminate unwanted Poland, Moscow and a Jewish leaders, especially those of the Bolshevik-Muscovite imperialism, national minorities are divided into: a) loyal to us, actually members still oppressed people, and b) hostile to us - Muscovites and Poles and Jews. a) have the same rights with the Ukrainians ..., b) destroy the struggle, in particular those that will defend the regime: to resettle in their lands, destroy, mainly intellectuals, which is not allowed in any governing bodies that make it impossible to do " production of "intellectuals, access to schools, etc. Leaders destroy the Jews ... Assimilation is excluded. "
"Act of revival of the Ukrainian state"
such as the act of creation was called powers, led by the leader of Bandera
where he was required to cancel the public "Act revival"
The authors forgot to write about how he had been asked not to stick to the property of the Reich - Melnyk and unrovtsam. And about his release and about the many letters signed by the author in various German institutions with the promise of complete loyalty to the leader S.Bandery powers?
After the release of the Nazi concentration camp Bandera again
Why  - this after the war?
Well, etc. 
Changes

From stepanbandera.org in the EP version 
Brothers Bandera

On what basis do you rolled edit it? In both sources, the authors of the professor. In the opinion of Professor evacuated editing rights. If the opinion of Professor of Law  and the second largest university in Estonia avtoritenogo for you not to AI (this is known to us your approach, you and Professor, University of Tartu is not authority)), provide a more authoritative AI refuting the information and questions will not 
Since when is a professor of law, we are authoritative in the field of history. Moreover resursets you bring 
Once again, not knowing how to read 
The
Sergiychuk also professor 
An
This source was in the article before, so it does not matter to me. You can not use your favorite practice away from the issues and set points? I ask for the third time 
Well, my dear sir 
I only said the information and gave the AI. It can be argued whether the opinion of Professor 
Article Tsybulenko on kalev.ee can not be on the history of AI, as the man clearly was not himself and was not responsible for his words. We read what he writes in the same article of the current president of the member countries of UN Security Council, "a puppet" 
"Puppet" in this case 
From the article Tsybulenko evaluative judgments that does not shine through. However, we argue about anything. Beware of false authority: "Do not trust blindly statements about the credibility of a source. Degrees mean prestige only to the area in which they were received (and even that 
Please take the trouble to read the third paragraph (from :,  April ) to discuss 
Read. I look at the history of edits. Reference to the work Sergiychuk you removed the reference to Tsybulenko added (that it "deals with the subject" does not make it AI 
Not true! Look closely 
Yes, you are right, please forgive me for carelessness.
However
Apology accepted :-) The fact that the second link is in no way contrary to the first, but complements and refines it (because, in fact, I put both) 
I
Do not you think that this is somewhat incorrect to speak that way about professors? I do not like to get personal, but to claim the like, be nice to yourself, at least, is also a professor 
Yes
To this I replied to you already, too 
Rea
And I think you also need to respect the opponents on obuzhdeniyu -
I only said the information and gave the AI. - This is not true - was deleted text showing who announced the "death" (later the same source later said that it also "lost leader s.Bandera.) So let's get closer to the subject proizoshedshgo. Well, what has been added - this is called Type A and a direct violation of the EP: Thank CHNYAV
If there are two sources of the phrase would be irrelevant and inaccurate 
An
I wonder who tested his knowledge of the history of this country? You took his exams? What gives you the right to make statements about the level of knowledge of the person with whom you (probably) do not even know personally? 
Outcome of the dispute
I watch the methods of discussion and participation in all respects relating to the history of nationalist movements in Ukraine constant at %. No one noticed how skillfully Viggen party rental? He asked the brothers relate Bandera issue clear and specific. Discussion with him on this thread begins to lead party Jodoe (which, judging by the activity in the articles with the same theme, is a major specialist in the history of the OUN-UPA in Wikipedia). Despite neodnokratnon repeating questions, Jodoe though it did not respond, leading topic of discussion on extraneous neutral topics (reception old, he used to teach at the College and is now studying in religious academies as a method out of a dispute). When the persistence participant Viggen party Jodoe tired, it skillfully substituted party Abarmot. As a result, by the end of the discussion Viggen forgot to ask. Saktsentirovat want attention, I had no purpose to dwell on personality and (hopefully) or anyone not offended. I respect all participants and any opinion welcome firm. However ... I am concerned about the trends that are formed around a specific topic articles. We would like to discuss that were objective, it will be more useful.
Yea
And yet, I was still concerned about the issue that was raised in this discussion thread 
Watch AI (now listed in the article). Unknown until only one brother who went hiking with groups on Shidnu Ukraine and "disappeared" (officially the OUN (b) the end of the 's he was killed in a fight with the Germans in Lviv). But in AI is a remarkable document from diabetes in  as to whether the documents were to them as to the character of the KGB, managed to recruit and send to "the fighters." Although I do not understand these attempts to turn the EP into a memorial collection of genealogy OUN (b) - we have an article about a particular kind of character - the part about his godfathers, friend, brother? 'Thank you for the clarification. Obviously this section should be removed - as oftop typical characteristic of certain publications Jodoe :,  August  (UTC).
And not have to clean. It is normal in an article about a person has information about his family. Just if you have any questions, it is better to present them immediately, without forcing the situation. There are two opinions, describe both, who stirs? The reader can decide what to believe. 
So extensively 
No need to exaggerate. What have godfathers and matchmakers? 
Question 
You are right, a defect of the authors. 
Yes 
Purely subjective opinion. 
Tricolor flag over the Kremlin, it is justice.
Quote

"Shortly after the German attack on Poland Bandera is released from prison - according to the OUN (b) himself came out, according to other sources - released by the Germans." - But is not this the same thing? he's out, and did not run away - then released.
there are  versions 
I would like to add section 

"During interrogation, the head of the nd branch of the Abwehr, Colonel E. Stolz,  May , he testified that Stepan Bandera and Andrew Miller at the beginning of  have been agents of the Abwehr, and received funding from Germany to conduct the insurgency in western Ukraine . 
Information that was paid S.Bandera Abwehr agent should also testimony from other employees Abwehr: Alphonse Paulus, Siegfried Müller, Erwin Stolz 
The above links you 
This information is published in the British edition of materials Nuremberg: Trials of German Major War Criminals (British Transcripts) The Trial of German Major War Criminals Sitting at Nuremberg, Germany. Vol.. Session , February , , Part  of , Page : "In carrying out the above-mentioned instructions of Keitel and Jodl, I contacted Ukrainian Nationalists who were in the German Intelligence Service and other members of the Nationalist Fascist groups, whom I enlisted in to carry out the tasks as set out above. In particular, instructions were given by me personally to the leaders of the Ukrainian Nationalists, the German Agents Myelnik (code name 'Consul I') and Bandara to organise, immediately upon Germany's attack on the Soviet Union, and to provoke demonstrations in the Ukraine, in order to disrupt the immediate rear of the Soviet Armies, and also to convince international public opinion of alleged disintegration of the Soviet rear "
I read it, but here is not the date when the character became consul  
OK. Well, the claim is too much, the interrogation protocol Stolze received international tribunal to question if the materials the Nuremberg trials, it can be said that the war was not at all, and it's a global plan to demonize the NKVD OUN-Bandera in particular :)) ZaporozhyenCossack :,  July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack
Yo
You were in a remote Galician village and monitored desires deaf Galicians? 
Yo
What do you mean? 
A
Lecture

Bandera and Poles
In this section, for the sake of objectivity, could be supplemented by information on the origins of the Ukrainian-Polish conflict. Bandera's not for no reason took up the repression of ethnic Poles. It is necessary to point out that the Polish-Ukrainian conflict has deep historical roots, is centuries old, reason for it was the centenary feud between the Ukrainian people, was under the rule of Poland and the Polish gentry. In the first half of the twentieth century persecution of the Ukrainian population started Polish nationalists (during the war fighters of the Home Army, in particular) and of the UPA has been reciprocal step. In fact, there has been ethnic conflict. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  August  (UTC) 
Of course, any information would be superfluous. Following a modular Wikipedia, I believe that this information is best to give a separate item. From these considerations, added a red link to "Volyn massacre." KW :,  August  (UTC) 
The concept of "Volyn massacre," in my opinion somewhat encyclopedic. We need to create an article about the events, people died, a fact significant. However, more neutrally be called an article like this: "Ethnic cleansing in Volyn (if that)," or the other. Actually it was the ethnic cleansing, in addition, as revenge for the subsequent ethnic cleansing of Ukrainians in Poland, which had been previously. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  August  (UTC) 
I have no opinion on the matter. The expression "Volyn Massacre" is taken from the BBC Russian Service reports referred to in the article. KW :,  August  (UTC) 
Colleagues, "Bandera and Poles" - apparently a newspaper and shall set the podium, but not encyclopedic title, if you take a closer look at the section Bandera and contemporary public opinion - you will find the same thing in Poland Bandera evaluated negatively, as the fighter of the Poles. Remember that "the VP did not dump information" - and blow provocative PR-action - visit  characters before placing it into the identity of the EP? Remember that that is the work of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine about the AI ​​is that responsibility for the Volyn massacre arguments assigned to Klyachkovskogo and Shukhevych. Also in the works of several historians have noted a number of attempts to write indulgence figures (your arguments about what it is, something for something), proponents of the OUN (b). The presence of software documents the OUN (b) make such attempts insolvent (though no otridtsaet that previous events have made the initiation of a massacre Effectiveness). Thanks Jodoe :,  August  (UTC) 
chevotolyub chevotochevich and genocide Ruthenians, Ukrainians contributed for what reason? 

career 

Since when terrorism and political assassinations are called "national liberation struggle of the Ukrainian people for independence of Ukraine"? 
... :,  October  (UTC) 
Since then, as you look at the decision process concerning the Nuremberg UPA and Bandera. - ... :,  October  (UTC) - 
Responses to the assignment of the Hero of Ukraine 

In Slovakia against 
Official Crimea against - ... :,  January  (UTC) 
The section is a clear bias from  negative and  positive - GrV :,  January  (UTC) 
And if this is a trend? Cheat the opinion of each of the regional () and the district representative "Hero of Ukraine" and Kuhn? - Vizu :,  January  (UTC) 
So what? Find the positive and add. S.Yu.Kornilov (St. Petersburg) :,  January  (UTC) 
VP did not catalog quotations, instead of casting a large Number of citations from one group of people, it is better to leave the one that best expresses the opinion of the country / organization - GrV :,  January  (UTC) 
Can you explain the reason why you are removing the part of the text? - Gleb Borisov :,  January  (UTC) 
what relation to the subject of the article has to pass / fail Yushchenko in the second round? and that means "one of the last decree" if, after he had signed more than a dozen? also in the text is the pressure, the lack of Bandera's Ukrainian citizenship, but to dignify him this honor a few people not as citizens of Ukraine, and Yushchenko signed a decree as the (first of his presidency) and Kuchma. therefore neutral description of the facts is more appropriate in this article - GrV :,  January  (UTC) 
The Simon Wiesenthal Center condemned the Yushchenko ... :,  January  (UTC) 

Question. In principle, the political PR need this article? Do not be limited to simple fact - the first-, second paragraph (before "... has caused extremely controversial both in Ukraine and abroad." - Point) and pupulizm (who advertises himself as) leave for yesterday's newspaper? These are all the people who acted and spoke, they are significant for this article and Wikipedia? Campaign they only delight the ears of his constituents pour ... each his own. I am absolutely sure that after some time, these details will be removed for non-compliance and non-significant historical subject of the article, so do not do it right away and not to make a long flood and war in a vacuum. How do you feel? - Sasha (krassotkin) :,  January  (UTC) 
All of these people and organizations are significant. In addition, it is important to understand the role of Bandera in the Ukraine and in the world. No it is not an empty statement (though it, too, sometimes.) This is an important issue for Ukraine, especially for those who are here in along with KHISI name Shukhevych and central streets named Bandera. And then later will ask, what is there zavarushka started? Yes, that's about it. - Vizu :,  January  (UTC) 
Two more times read. Here about the inside and outside showdown between the actions of politicians, but adds nothing to the article titled Bandera Stepan A., more convinced that this article this piece ogromenny urgent need to remove. Wikipedia does not stand. - Sasha (krassotkin) :,  January  (UTC) 
Do not delete the course, and then make a separate article as more subdivision. Or make a footnote down. - Vizu :,  January  (UTC) 
I believe that the subject eventually burn out, but the fact is that in Ukraine dominated by negative or neutral reaction is probably possible to ascertain. So after some time, the section can be reduced, in particular by removing the urgent publication of the judgment and order awarding - with time everything will be clarified, and quotes relegate to footnotes or refer to the original sources. Bogomolov.PL :,  January  (UTC) 
I would not say that in Ukraine all positive. Negative, no less. - Vizu :,  January  (UTC) 
In Ukraine, there are both positive and negative, and neutral. In Ukraine is positive enough, but a lot of neutral (aside from the Poles, Jews, and Russia). Bogomolov.PL :,  January  (UTC) 
Kaczynski condemned the recognition of Bandera's Hero of Ukraine 
Partition is required! Even if some of the politicians and other people whose opinions are as presented and then pour delight the ears of voters, readers, listeners, viewers, etc. This highlights that in Ukraine and abroad so full of people that are nice to hear accusations towards Bandera, which is in turn related to the demonstration of his personality. Moreover, the views show who and what belongs to Bandera in Ukraine. And, would not you say, Bandera a hero, he fought for the independence of Ukraine, and fought with the Communists and the Bolsheviks, and it deserves a lot of respect. 
... :,  February  (UTC) Igor Natriadi. 
BTW to "courts" can replenish facts: February , Lugansk Regional Administrative Court accepted the claim V.Golenko production premium on cancellation of the decree as illegal. The same day, a similar process has begun in the Donetsk District Administrative Court - the suit V.Olentsevicha. ... :,  March  (UTC) Associate 

Temi-hik :,  June  (UTC) I'm sorry, but do not need to remove the title of Hero of Ukraine in Bandera? May  Yanukovych took the title from him. 
No unnecessary. officially Bandera Hero of Ukraine - GrV :,  June  (UTC) 
After the decision of the appellate Donetsk . Bandera official - not a hero. Who will make the correction? ... :,  June  (UTC) Associate 
This is ridiculous - how do Donetsk adm. the court may reverse the decree of the President? Decrees are entitled to cancel only by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It would be interesting to see if some of Doe judge Municipal Court, for example, the city of Norilsk has canceled his sentence Presidential decree conferring the title of Hero of Russia, for example, Ramzan Kadyrov. Or if suddenly Odessa mountains. Court would suddenly decided to rename the Khmelnitsky in Proskurov, and Lviv court - to dismantle the monument to Catherine II of Sevastopol. Bandera led the real fight against the Communists, and fell from their hands. He has earned the title of Hero of Ukraine, and no one has the right, except the President or the Supreme or Constitutional Court to deprive him of the title. - Lik :,  December  (UTC) Cmeysya on health, but according to the existing law, any court, even Donetsk, could reverse the decree of the President as the laws and the premium charter. Which was done. Norm of "lack of jurisdiction" introduced much later. So the decision was made and entered into force on .., as reported on the official website of the President. And Bandera was a bandit, a terrorist and a murderer, Nazi agent. ... :,  January  (UTC) Associate 
All the heroes of war of one people are killers for other people, or do not happen. For Ukrainians, especially that part of Ukraine, where the troops acted OUN / UPA, Stepan Bandera - the hero of the liberation of the nationalist movement. This is confirmed by all opinion polls and share it with every poll Simpatico (distance of time - a year or two) is growing. If necessary, I can provide statistics. 
The Executive Committee of Ternopil City Council August ,  added the words "Hero of Ukraine" on the monument to the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, Stepan Bandera. 
This is stated in the press service of the city hall. 
"In Ternopil on the monument to Stepan Bandera coined the word" Hero of Ukraine ", and now the monument brought into line with the name of the area," - said in a statement. 
At City Hall told the City Council earlier renamed the area in which there is a monument in the square named after Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera. 
"No court can take away the true story of the Ukrainians. Stepan Bandera - ideologue and leader of the Ukrainian nation. For every conscious Ukrainians it is always the hero," - said the mayor of Ternopil Sergey Nadal. 
According to the mayor, this endorsement will help residents and visitors remember Bandera as a true hero. - Lik :,  September  (UTC) 
It should also add objects named after the hero of articles 

Streets named S.Bandery 
At the moment, there are streets named after him in cities such as Lviv, Lutsk, Rivne, Coloma, Ternopil, Ivano-Frankivsk, Chervonograd, Drohobycz, striae, Kalush, Kovel, Vladimir-Volyn, Gorodenka. 
Monuments and museums Bandera 
Now located in the cities of Old Uhryniv (Ivano-Frankivsk region), Yagelnitsa (Ternopil region), Will-Zaderevatska (Lviv region), Dublyany (Lviv region). Outside Ukraine, there is a "Museum of the Liberation War of them. Stepan Bandera in London" (Liverpool road, ). 
In , the museum was inaugurated in Ternopil provided with a copy of the death mask face Bandera 
Tenko-chan :,  January  (UTC) 
For a start, I think it was necessary to transfer at least monuments to Stepan Bandera, that today I did in the article, carefully collected and summarized all the discovered information about them. Pretty colors of the monument in the Ivano-Frankivsk 
Here's another little-known monument in with. The will of the Lviv region Zaderevatskaya 
Trident or a star? 

Who can tell? Bandera that distance - for his work (in Ukrainian trident) or military feat (gold star a la Hero of the Soviet Union)? - Igor :,  February  (UTC) 
Bandera like Gold Star ... Paradox. Shukhevych was definitely trident. - Vizu :,  February  (UTC) 
Gentlemen, and see the link to the article in the decree did not try? There Ukrainian and white 
Prisvoїti the title of Hero of Ukraine s udostoєnnyam Order POWERS BANDERІ Stepan Andrіyovichu - provіdnikovі Organіzatsії ukraїnskih natsіonalіstіv (posthumously). 
Sergei Kornilov :,  February  (UTC) 
The views over the award of Hero of Ukraine 

I think that the article is too much opinion over the award of the Hero of Ukraine. As correctly pointed out above, Wikipedia is not a collection of quotes, so I propose to reduce this section to a few sentences. Different views on the matter can dial hundreds and I see no reason to drag them all to a page that tells not of contemporary political life in Ukraine, and about the historical character who lived a half-century ago. All links can be left, but from there to copy a quote in the article I do not see the point. Silent :,  February  (UTC) 
Against. Citation fine. The issue is urgent. - Vizu :,  February  (UTC) 
Wikipedia is not a collection of quotes and news portal. In historical articles must be current information from the historical point of view and given to historians, but not everyone. Silent :,  February  (UTC) 
Not everyone, but WP: Significance. People and organizations. Views of local and regional representatives, without passing on the EP: So, are removed. - Vizu :,  February  (UTC) 
If a person or organization to pass the criteria of relevance to Wikipedia, does that mean that their opinion on any subject is also meaningful when they are not experts in this field? Who are Kavalirova H., O. Wagner, P. Sechkarev? Why, if their opinion is so important, no information about them can not be found? Why have to copy all the quotes in the article? Can not we just give the link, and the reader, if he wishes, will be held on them and read quotations. Silent :,  February  (UTC) 
These heads of the organizations, it is to appropriate VP significance. - Vizu :,  February  (UTC) 
Recently found an article on one of the Crimean sites where the author states that the glorification of Bandera and the OUN-UPA in modern Ukraine prtivorechit principles on which the modern Ukrainian state. Ie SWNTs have headed to a state with a totalitarian regime, and the modern Ukraine - a democratic state, where there is no mandatory ideology and all, regardless of nationality of its citizens. And he wondered why in Ukraine, he and Shukhevych awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine if their ideological views contrary to constitutional principles, because this title should be awarded one who promotes or strengthen them or whose activities it does not. nadvaerlis 
.Potomu that "Heroes of Ukraine", UNA-UNSO, "Freedom" and "Our Ukraine" (NSNU, head of Yushchenko) have similar political views. .Yuschenko need electorate in Western Ukraine as the head of the party after the termination of powers. Now he had to increase. - Vizu :,  February  (UTC) 
I suggest you read the rules of discussion and delete the message along with the comment vysheotpisavshegosya anonymous because they do not have to do work on the article Silent :,  February  (UTC) 
Yushchenko said March : "sign the surrender of national interests is a public commitment on the eve of the th anniversary of the Soviet victory in World War II to reconsider the decision to award the title of Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera and Roman Shukhevych. - For millions of citizens of Ukraine Stepan Bandera and Shukhevych were remain national heroes, despite the best efforts of Soviet propaganda. "  - ... :,  March  (UTC) 
Since section "Assigning a Hero of Ukraine" took just a crazy amount, then the partition is in a separate article on the reaction of the assignment Stepan Bandera the title "Hero of Ukraine", and is significantly reduced ( KB) leaving the most important. - Movses :,  March  (UTC) 
Guys, you have in the "spouse" written "Polish girl raped." Cool! ... :,  April  (UTC) 
Well - it all fell into place. Bandera is no longer a hero! 
Ukrainian Court invalidated the "heroism" of Bandera...

Can the Donetsk Court annul the decrees of the President of Ukraine is a separate conversation. in any case, the decision shall take effect no earlier than  days after the decision, so that a change in the present text is vandalism - GrV :,  April  (UTC) 
vandalism? you're crazy. there is quite a significant fact, and take it to the jur. effect or not, but it would still be ample significant fact. - Llll :,  April  (UTC) 
And where it says that the court shall enter into force  days? - Andrew Sdobnikov :,  April  (UTC) 
In Procedure - Viggen :,  April  (UTC) 
In Part  of Art.  of the Code Admіnіstrativnogo Sudochinstva Ukraine "RESOLVED abo uhvala court pershoї іnstantsії, Yakscho іnshe not vstanovleno CIM Code nabiraє zakonnoї silica pіslya zakіnchennya line Podanev applicants about apelyatsіyne oskarzhennya, vstanovlenogo CIM Code Yakscho taku not said Bulo filed." That is  days. And then, if declared not served. And if you will be served, while it appeals court will consider ... And there is the court in Kiev is ... Legally, the decision into effect are not yet known and will take it ... And according to this deprive Bandera award is premature. It would be logical to make appropriate changes to the article, after the decision will be approved and will come into force. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  April  (UTC) 
And the appeal will be filed  - Viggen :,  April  (UTC) 
The question of appeal is likely to be decided in the light of self-conscious political solution to the current leadership, however, the historical aspect will always be split - the recognition of the current political power and historical fact, the evaluation of which is unlikely to be unique. - Mixabest :,  April  (UTC) 
Article defended with option without reward. At the moment, the Presidential Decree on awarding Bandera remains in force, as the decision of the District Court in force did not come. Yushchenko's appeal on the application will be filed in skrok. Consideration Donetsk appellate court will take time. One can assume that after the approval of the Court of Appeal decision, the decision will be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court. This is going to take time. The solution that the courts will make a second and third instance is not known. Perhaps the decision of the district court will be reversed, and the changes already made in the article. Maybe it makes sense to return information about the award in place until the above-mentioned decree will cease to exist as it is required by law? - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  April  (UTC) 

quoted by dibrov_s: Basically, I was expecting something like that, but I want to draw attention to two points. "First. Decree awarding - is an act of individual action. Conferring the title Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera to the late affects the rights, freedoms and interests of Stepan Bandera not affect the rights, freedoms and interests of third parties, including Donetsk lawyer Vladimir Olentsevicha. In this particular case, the plaintiff may be Stepan Bandera. Claims on the acts of individual action under Part  of Art.  CAS Ukraine are treated in the community (host location) of the plaintiff, that is, it turns out, either in Munich (the place of residence), or in the afterlife ( at the location.) As far as I know, neither there nor there Ukrainian administrative courts to be established. 
Second. If at some hangover considered Yushchenko's decree as a "legal act", the lawyer Vladimir Olentsevich still a very big stretch will be the plaintiff. However, in this case, according to Part .  CAS Ukraine, it should consider the court jurisdiction over the city of Kiev. This is not the first time that the courts consider claims Donetsk lawyer Olentsevicha against central government: a similar case was in the early mesyatsa.Vse this clearly indicates that, in light of recent political changes, this group of cases will now be considered by the District Court, jurisdiction over the city of Donetsk. Apparently, the code just stupidly forgot to make the appropriate changes. 
My prediction: "the decision to Bandera is canceled for formal reasons. After //" 
In addition, the quote by pc: "Create an interesting precedent. Canceled title, as" a person who died before , can not be citizens of Ukraine, and the claim to the president to award the title of Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera satisfy the decree as unlawful and cancel it . "For the same reason, we must now deny the title of all who died before ? For example , or here ". - Viggen :,  April  (UTC) 
Viggen, your analyst is not in place. There is not a forum (see above warning) - Llll :,  April  (UTC) 
The question was - by far //, neither the Bandera who rewards are not deprived. Why have removed information about the award of the current version of the article and defended the article in this form? Where the discussion? - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  April  (UTC) 
Stable version contains award. It's not ochlocracy to all-everything resolved through discussion. - Llll :,  April  (UTC) 
And what have the stable version? - We're discussing the current - Viggen :,  April  (UTC) 
A Viggen quite the place, strange quotes, arguments led to the fact that it is too early to make changes to the article. So much so, that undoing changes restore information about the award, participants give an estimate of the Decrees of the President are legitimate or not. That's where the analyst ... - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  April  (UTC) 
Said stiffly. It was an event - the court. Must be supplemented by an article by a court, to add a response to this decision (appeal). It was my constructive suggestion here without la-la. About the Court added - thanks. Of appeal - not yet. - Llll :,  April  (UTC) 
I'll tell you a secret, only you or who do not speak - until the decision of the court has not entered into force, with the legal aspect of the event, and there can not be. Explain the fingers. If you divorce with his wife, and the District Court ruled that your car leaves your wife, it does not mean that the car is hers. You'll use this machine as long as the decision of the district court does not approve the Regional Court and then the Supreme. So see? I'll tell you more - Wikipedia recently lost its credibility and become a laughing stock out of it for just such decisions. You read the comments to news professionals in the part where the questions are references to this resource. The issue of objectivity is not worth it. There is a question about elementary correspond to reality. And to me, to be honest, it's sad to realize, as I have the knowledge and experience here too invested. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  April  (UTC) 
Innuendo (not filled with card) is not greatly reduce the authority of Wikipedia, as those cases when told outright lies or deliberately falsified information Ukrainian Navy (-). In the article there is a whole section on awarding prizes. Relative rewards in the card, I find it necessary to return to the template, as the decision of the court has not yet entered into force, and may be appealed, and as if we do not take it more rewarding to at least  the number of the card should be a reward. - Generous :,  April  (UTC) 
The thing is that removed from the template award, although today the decision of the court is not in force, that is even formally Bandera - Hero - Viggen :,  April  (UTC) 

The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine on  August . confirmed the decision, according to which the title of Hero of Ukraine Ukrainian nationalist leader Stepan Bandera was given illegally. In addition, the court made a similar decision in respect of another leader of Ukrainian Nationalists - Roman Shuhevicha.http :/ / top.rbc.ru/society////.shtml 
 

I draw your attention, editing an article on this topic. It violated the style of presentation. Between the third and fourth paragraphs clearly something missing, some illogical gap. Usually in the encyclopedia article defines the key concept, the acronym, the person, the first time in the text. Here (in the text) can not immediately understand what Poon, who is Miller. - Vladimir :,  April  (UTC) 
Nationalist whether the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists 

I think that this topic should be closed once and for all, so as not to give rise to such persistence , , ,  (my actions are no better, because I just do not know how to explain party that "sunflower oil" - oil, not wet). - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
I propose to write a more neutral: Ukrainian politician, as in the BDT. I think that then the question will definitely be closed. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Such things cloud in trousers :). Probably so, and will have to do, otherwise the war will never run out of edits. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Early in the topic covered. It is not necessary to manipulate concepts. The nationalist not preclude national liberation. By all indications, as if it was not someone uncomfortable, the nationalist movement in the Ukraine in the mid-twentieth century was of nationalistic character, since the main aim was to create an independent nation state. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  June  (UTC ) 
Formally Miroljub Dobrognevovich rights. The problem, rather, is that in fact supporters of the OUN there is definitely a positive attitude to this organization, and Soviet-era propaganda remained educated belief that "national liberation" - that's good. Belonging to the "national liberation" as it gives absolution inherent in any international conflicts, to make "national liberation forces" and clearly defines the villain of the oppressor: it is the one with whom fighting "national liberation movements". Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
What is life? Manipulation concepts. There anonymous tried to insert a "national collaborationist movement." And as if this was not someone uncomfortable, and it was so. Whether this is a "national liberation"? Or can inscribe both, and so it is absolutely yours and ours? - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
In fact, in case of problems with a capacious term should give a more detailed definition: The nationalist movement, whose main goal is to establish an independent national state. To achieve these objectives, used as a military force and propaganda, political struggle. To achieve its goals the OUN carried out actions that contributed to the violent removal and / or destruction of the territory controlled or partially controlled by armed groups OUN, a number of national minorities, including Poles, Jews, and a few others. During the Nazi occupation of the Ukraine OUN fought as with anti-fascist guerrilla movements, as well as the Soviets. Of temporary alliances with the occupation authorities OUN passed to the armed confrontation in the struggle for control over territories that OUN believed Ukrainian. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
It is an article of Stepan Bandera, and not of the OUN, detailed definition (any direction) he led the organization in the preamble to this article weighing the preamble to full unreadable. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
No argument. The main condition of presentation in any encyclopedia, it is not the perception of the reader relief, and as objective as possible. Identification of specific technical terms as "unreadable" that until you finish reading the definition, you forget where I began. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  June  (UTC) 
Difficult to read some technical concepts certainly can not be an argument. In this case, it is not enough to lead to the absurd by replacing the phrase "one of the leaders of Ukrainian national movement" to "one of the leaders of the nationalist movement, which is the main aim was to create an independent nation state. To achieve these objectives, used as a military force and propaganda, political struggle. To achieve its goals the OUN carried out actions that contributed to the violent removal and / or destruction of the territory controlled or partially controlled by armed groups OUN, a number of national minorities, including Poles, Jews, and a few others. During the Nazi occupation of the Ukraine OUN fought as with anti-fascist guerrilla movements, as well as the Soviets. Of temporary alliances with the occupation authorities OUN passed to the armed confrontation in the struggle for control over territories that OUN believed Ukrainian. "Bad enough that the text is a link to an article OUN, which you can write all of the above (if it is not written) . - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Be that as it may, the term "national liberation" for residents xUSSR is pronounced positive color and for the population to apply it to Bandera fundamentally nedopostimo. Similarly, the term "nationalist" has a pronounced negative coloration and unacceptable for another part of the population. So, can still write "Ukrainian politicians" and stop this war of edits? - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
The expression "national liberation" is a pronounced positive color for most sober-minded people around the world. "Nationalist" has a pronounced negative coloration on the other side people who brought about a particular program, often based on the substitution of the concepts of "nationalism" and "Nazis." The overwhelming majority of the national liberation movements were nationalist. For example, Comrade Ho Chi Minh was a typical nationalist, but he was a nationalist "good" because of "our." This is the question all sorts of color concepts. So let's build on the objective reality and not on political and value preferences of xUSSR, the Kingdom of Kuwait, or Burkina Faso. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  June  (UTC) 
"Expression" nationalistic "is a pronounced negative coloration and unacceptable for another part of the population" 
This argument can not be taken seriously, given the name of the organization, led by Stepan Bandera and that this name should be in the text immediately after the discussion of expression. 
Bandera activity involved several more activity than nationalism. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Nationalism is not the sphere of activity, and ideology. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
"Ukrainian politicians'" 
Upon reflection, he came to the conclusion that this statement can not be accepted. The reason is simple: the subject of a page that it was ethnically Galician and extends the scope of its interests in Ukraine, yet had no Ukrainian citizenship, and the Polish and German. 
Accordingly, we have this statement: 
"Polish and German politician, leader of the Ukrainian nationalist movement." - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
The expression "the Ukrainian politician" applies to the Great Russian Encyclopedia - one of the most authoritative encyclopedic source. Well, "the Polish and German" - is generally reductio ad absurdum. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
The problem is that unwittingly confuses: German, German, Russian, and the Russian, Kazakh and Kazakh are different, but the Ukrainian (ethnic) and Ukrainian (as citizens) do not differ. Bandera was a Ukrainian (ethnic), but never was a Ukrainian by nationality. This issue was raised in one day angloviki filling infobox about it. If he was a "citizen" of the Ukraine, the only one that he announced a couple of days in Lviv in . Documents proving his citizenship, he was Polish and then German. That's why, from the point of view he was a legal person, which until  had clearly citizenship interwar Poland, carried out its activities in the inter-war Poland. After the band comes some uncertainty: Poland considers that from  to , its sovereign territory was occupied by the Soviets, and only in , at the conclusion of a treaty on the border of Poland recognized affiliation Z.Ukrainy USSR (receiving a back part of the territory called Zakerzonschiny ). The Soviet and (a rare event in our times - Ukrainian) side view is different: in  Z.Ukraina efforts of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and the Red Army was reunited with the main Ukraine and since the territory in which the war (or anyone: wire genocide (the Sejm of Poland), engaged in political struggle (some members of the Ukrainian side)), Ukrainian nationalists (as they called themselves) were the Ukrainian lands. What's more - a number of areas of post-war Poland (which was carried out "Action Vistula"), many in Ukraine believe ethnically Ukrainian and which held both the fighting and other forms of SWNTs, in terms of law are to this day in Poland. Thus, it appears that Bandera, a Polish citizen being formally until  operated in its territory, from  to , he directed the activities of his organization, which was distributed in the Soviet Union occupied Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, and after the war his organization operated in the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia and Poland, after emigrating Bandera became a citizen of Germany. As you may have noticed, Ukraine as a subject of international law at the time did not exist, and therefore citizenship Bandera was only Polish and German. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
The problem is that Abarmot uses formal-logical approach. Yes, the logic he can present arguments that Bandera - Polish politician. But in the real world, no one scientist even can not think to call him so. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
The problem is that an alternative legal approach (which you called formal logical) only - politicized ideological approach. But as soon as we set foot on this slippery path - we can not "stand up", that is to find any common ground with the "reality" on the other. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Only one alternative - the use of the most authoritative sources. Do you have sources that Bandera - Polish politician? - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
I'm talking about the actual situation, not about what we are taught authoritative and other miscellaneous sources. The expression "kakoysky politician" definitely not associated with ethnicity, but with nationality. That is why we need to avoid the term "Ukrainian politicians" - it is an elementary mistake. As regards the concept of "the most authoritative sources," it is strange. As if we have the right rank (vote?) Authoritative source, select and present naiavtoritetneyshy sootvetstvuyuschkyu TK article. Wikipedia concept is different - first of all explain exactly known facts. And their interpretation - in the second. Indicating that this interpretation. The fact that Bandera was first Polish citizen, a citizen of Germany and then someone challenged? - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
The concept of using "the most authoritative sources" directly follows from the EP: Weight and VP Margot. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Read the rules carefully, please. Concerns the use of authoritative sources, overcoming a threshold of credibility, and the reduction of their points of view to the general, and not about cutting off all points of view, apart from the point of view of one the most trustworthy source. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
In this case, we are not discussing the content of the article, which actually might be represented authoritative point of view, as a preamble, the amount of which is not infinite. And you still have not answered the question about the AI ​​to "polish watered. Figure. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Of course, the preamble can not accommodate all the different points of view, so the controversial provisions in it is better not to mention limiting only indisputable facts. What nationality is determined by the nationality of the politician, the AI ​​does not require, as a fact. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
On the other hand, the fact is that since it does not describe the AI. See WP: Orissa. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Objectively, the situation looks like this: Bandera is a Ukrainian nationalist, which operates mainly in Poland and the Soviet Union (including during the German occupation of the territories of these countries), which is now mostly part of Ukraine. He had the nationality of Poland and Germany. 
The same with Ocalan - Kurdish nationalist, he should conduct their activities mainly in Turkey. He is a Turkish national, whose prison and sits. Bandera, as I remember, was in the Polish prison sentence for the Polish court. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
Here I am talking about the same thing, we do not write that Ocalan - Turkish politician. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
The same problem - Turkish (ethnic) and Turkish (Turkish owned) do not differ. It would be truer to say that Ocalan is a Kurdish nationalist osuschestvlyavschim operating primarily in Turkey. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
Quite right - Ukrainian nationalist. Actually with this and start a discussion. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Colleagues, I will try to express their opinion, can somehow get closer positions. ) Nationalism (and the "nationalist movement") as a characteristic of the ideology bears no negative connotations (as opposed to Nazism, chauvinism, ultra-thing-there) is an umbrella term for ideologies that to some extent the importance of declaring ethnic entities as a political entity. And even in the framework of nationalism can be identified as "good" (the national liberation movements) and "bad." Find iron AI that OUN professed nationalist ideology, were not working. I think this option is completely compromised. Say, Parnell, Charles Stewart named leader of Irish nationalists and issues no one there. ) Ethnicity Bandera as a leader of nationalist sense is crucial, for it is the AI ​​(same BDT). Therefore, from my point of view should be called something like "Ukrainian politician and the leader of the nationalist movement," and a comma in the following sentence, or the nationality of the list of areas where its activities are unfolding, and citizenship which countries had Bandera. It will be valid in all respects. If on these issues in general there is agreement, ready to write a draft of the preamble. - Blacklake :,  June  (UTC) 
You well said, but what does "Ukrainian"? Ukrainian President Yushchenko, too, but he was not the president of Ukraine and Ukrainians. Because he is more "leader of the Ukrainian nationalist movement" than "Ukrainian politician," and at the same time (or parallel?) "The leader of the Ukrainian nationalists"? It turns out that: 
Bandera - the leader of the Ukrainian nationalist movement, carried out political and organizational activities are mainly in Western Ukraine, which was part of Poland and the USSR, as well as during the Nazi occupation Z.Ukrainy. 
Maybe somewhere like that. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
In general support, but here are some to expand and refine the "leader of the Ukrainian nationalist movement, carried out its activities mainly in Western Ukraine, which was part of Poland and the Soviet Union, as well as during the Nazi occupation Z.Ukrainy." - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Expand? You simply remove the reference to "political and institutional" activities. I just wanted to thereby indicate that he was still a politician than a field commander with a gun in his hand running around the woods. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
No, I did not remove and replace the "political and organizational activities" to "its activities." Expanding, so a description of activities. Because the definition of "leader of the" already imply the more organizational and political activities than Run the woods with a gun. Also, I replaced the "fascist occupation" (that terminology is inaccurate) to "the Nazi occupation." - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Clearly, the character always carries "his" work, not "someone else." Ie in this case, "his work" has no more information than just "work", that's why I was surprised that deletion of information you describe as its "extension". Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
I think that the misunderstanding is cleared up. Remove the information was not, I just said, but "the organizational and political," the rest of the activities that the subject article also carried out mainly in the said territory. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Colleagues, let us also discuss the proposal Blacklake. It is completely neutral and reflects the essence. And any "cutoff" would only cause unnecessary flooding. Incidentally, the "Ukrainian" - means Ukrainian, not Polish, not Jewish and Kurdish. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
By the way, "Ukrainian" may mean the state-owned Ukraine. From the "Jewish" and "Kurdish" this does not happen, because Jewish state called Israel, and a Kurdish state is not at all, but even if it was, then it would be called "Kurdistan" and therefore belongs to Kurdistan would be characterized by the word "Kurdistan". An example of the Kurds and in this sense, the: between life Bandera Ukrainian state has ever had. But with the "Polish" and "Ukrainian" You guessed it - could be the Polish / Ukrainian Jews, Gypsies, Russian for what is an adjective meaning "Ukrainian" is determined solely by the context. For it may be the Sejm and the Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada (that adjective applies to the state). A preamble and the preamble to the fact - it is the first word article, the context they are not able to form. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
After all, in  he proclaimed the restoration of the Ukrainian state, including In this sense, it can be accurately called "Ukrainian political. figure." - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
In other words, you admit that the use of the phrase "the Ukrainian politician" in reference to Bandera is a very, very specific (ie, marginal) sense. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
No. Common sense and non-marginal, as poderzhivaetsya very reputable AI. - wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Above you wrote that it can be called "in this sense." A point was - the proclamation of the Ukrainian state recovery in the Nazi occupation of the real-life Ukrainian state: the Ukrainian SSR. Similar to the "state" proclaimed in many occupied countries of Europe, they were just provozglashateli collaborators serving the interests of the occupiers. Therefore, it must be noted - meaning spetsifitsesky. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
No need to ascribe to me what I said and thought. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Assume good intentions. Not exclude that understood you wrong. In this case, I did not quite clear the meaning of the phrase, "he declared in , the restoration of the Ukrainian state, including In this sense, it can be accurately called "Ukrainian political. figure. '" I would be very grateful for the clarification. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Apparently, based on the proposal Blacklake the consensus we're not Come. Suggest that "cut" preamble "to the most nehochu." Leave only the most neutral: Bandera - Ukrainian politician, in - years. Head of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN (b)). Everything else - the concentration camp, activities, cooperation / non-cooperation with the Nazis - in the article. The question of whether to write "Ukrainian politicians" may be sent to the RAS, if academics and PhD believe that it is possible, I personally argue with them will not. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
Blacklake proposal ignores arguments from Bogomolov.PL mine. Why not do the first part of your "very neutral", is explained by both of us. It is strange that you do not hear these explanations and keep repeating the same thing. - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
We have here a repetition of discussions angloviki - you have to repeat: Declaration of  on the proclamation of the Ukrainian state was, as we know, only a declaration, for public entities (tax system, the courts, police, border guards, budget, etc.) were not established before . Bandera as we now express the self-proclaimed state, his state, no one has recognized, and not be able to do this, for him, the state, the existence of the order of tens hours. Simply put, Bandera was not a Ukrainian passport, which would have been recognized at least someone somewhere. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
So - a dead end. Or let it remain as it is, or find an intermediary. - Wanderer :,  June  (UTC) 
However, the wording "as is" neneytralna, as too many to name Bandera is not connected with the struggle for the independence of Ukraine, and the mass killings of innocent people. Propose to exclude the phrase "one of the leaders of the movement for the independence of Ukraine." Then we get "Bandera ... - In the - years. Head of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN (b)). " - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Judge not, that ye be not judged (c). It's time to move away from the subjective attitude to historical figures and present information to start dry and impersonal. The fact that for many (who?) Bandera name of murder or does not affect the objective reality. On the other hand, for many (of Western Ukraine and many Ukrainians abroad) Bandera is a symbol of the struggle for the independence of Ukraine against Poland, the Soviet Union and Germany. We have a number of objective things that are not contested by anyone - a) Bandera was a leader of a political force among ethnic Ukrainians, and b) the main purpose of this political force was the construction of an independent Ukrainian state. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  June  (UTC ) 
We are gradually slipping into demagoguery. "The main purpose of" Hitler, too, was the murder of tens of millions of people, the man wanted for the good of his country. That he has, however, written in the preamble of the first few lines? "Founder and central figure of National Socialism." - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
At the expense of demagoguery you are absolutely right. Example somewhat correct, but in the last  years, is used widely. Unlike Hitler, Bandera did not set out to seize Russia and Europe to the Urals to the Atlantic. I think you are somewhat subjective approach to the subject of the article. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  June  (UTC) 
I am glad that you are so self-critical, it gives hope for an early consensus. The analogy is always somewhat flawed. However, it serves to highlight the falsity of a thesis (in this case, the thesis of the "main purpose" of Bandera) and highlight what, for some reason not mentioned. 
Do you think it is. 
By the way, you could not speak specifically on the proposed wording "Bandera ... - In the - years. Head of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN (b)) ", but not to their opinions with an appeal not to judge? - Abarmot :,  June  (UTC) 
Perhaps the declared objectives can be most sublime, but the methods of their implementation - different. Bogomolov.PL :,  June  (UTC) 
The phrase "for the independence of Ukraine" - is neutral. "Nationalist" - not neutral. I also propose to complete this barren liskussiyu time-consuming for many people. - Viggen :,  July  (UTC) 
The phrase "nationalist" - the official definition, which was given the organization he heads the organization itself, but because the removal of such a definition would neentsiklopedichno. Bogomolov.PL :,  July  (UTC) 
The article said enough about ideology. In the cap is set is not necessary. I'm not saying that the current wording was set admin, as a compromise. Let compromise remains. - Viggen :,  July  (UTC) 
That is what the article much on ideology and means that the preamble should be present the results of this "attention". The preamble in the briefest form summarizes the article - or do you think otherwise? Bogomolov.PL :,  July  (UTC) 
Colleagues Personally, I quite clear that in the current debate format to nothing lead. Let's take a look, or intermediaries, or leave the current preamble as kompromisny. - Wanderer :,  July  (UTC) 
I totally agree. I think that you, as the administrator may well insist on an end to the discussion and maintaining compromise formula - Viggen :,  July  (UTC) 
Well what is the compromise? The wording of the article is installed in unreasoned administrative act, not developed as a result of the discussion is, on closer inspection, a reflection of just one of the points of view (that the proponents of this TK and insist here on the sanctity of that phrase). - Abarmot :,  July  (UTC) 
Do not know who insists on this formulation. Personally, I am for the "leader of the national liberation movement," well or "Ukrainian politician." Well, we will look for intermediaries? - Wanderer :,  July  (UTC) 
In your place I would have insisted, because the difference between the "leader of the movement for independence" and "leader of the national liberation movement" is not visible to the naked eye. - Abarmot :,  July  (UTC) 
I am also a "leader of the national liberation movement," so that the current wording is a compromise, which should stop - Viggen :,  July  (UTC) 
Support. - Miroljub Dobrognevovich :,  July  (UTC) 
So, what we see: a group of participants, not responding to the arguments and proposals opponents, instead of trying to arrange a discussion of the vote on the adoption of "compromise." Why should you mediator? - Abarmot :,  July  (UTC) 
AI request in the preamble...
Abarmot, you put a request to the sources claim that Bandera was one of the leaders of the independence of Ukraine. Could you clarify what exactly you confused, that Bandera was a leader, or that he was in favor of the independence of Ukraine? And then we'll talk with you more. 
Sorry, I had to use a template, "No Au." I mean, that statement "the leader of the movement for the independence of Ukraine" in reference to Stepan Bandera, once it is issued for a compromise here, being very unusual, needs at least to be supported authoritative source. Otherwise, this is a common original research. 
And what it is "very unusual"? In fact he was a leader? Or is that "the independence of Ukraine"? For me personally, this request 
Let's be consistent, dear wanderer, and do without mutual hasty accusations (in violation of the NDA, for example). You have missed in your questions "movement for independence." I also want to remind you of your same statement: "On the other hand, the fact is that since it does not describe the AI. See WP: Orissa. " 
In writing the AI ​​theorist and a leading figure of the Ukrainian national liberation movement of the s and 's. What you put request 
Wikipedia does not require a literal compliance with the source, enough sense (which is already specified). Therefore, formally, this source can be inserted into the specified location and close the issue. But first, in accordance with WP: AI we need to evaluate the credibility of the source. The mentioned article is signed by: O.Y. Stasiuk. By guglezha find out who it was, I could not. You help? 
It is an article of Entsiklopedіya іstorії Ukrainy: Volume : A-B / Editorial Board.: VA Smolіy (head) is the іn. National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Іnstitut іstorії Ukrainy. 
I found out who O.Y.Stasyuk. This is a junior research fellow of the Institute of ukrainoznatstva Oleksandr Yosipovna Stasiuk. Thus, we view research assistant O.Stasyuk against the opinion of Academician D. Tabachnik, "Bandera was a Nazi secret service agent, on the one hand. On the other hand, led them to political forces and their militias bled Ukrainians, never hesitate to declare that their power must be terrible. They welcomed the Fuehrer of the German people of Adolf Hitler ".  Why should we give preference to the first, forget about the second, I do not understand, frankly. Let us inscribe then it both? 
First, online interviews Academician of the Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine by no AI in history, but because of it I will not even are risen. Second, what you call "opinion", published in the encyclopedia on the history, prepared by the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences (see list red.soveta of academics and doctors) and published by the Publishing House "Naukova Dumka" National Academy of Sciences (Ukrainian analogue Science (published)). To put this into question, you need a very, very, very serious AI, it's about the same as the question the article from BDT. 
Well, let's consider the source as a whole, without regard to persons. Here is a quote from it:
Holodomor - in ROKІV USRR - Ukrainian genocide. people ...;
Ukrainian povstanska armіya (UPA) - empty;
Organіzatsіya ukraїnskih natsіonalіstіv (OUN) - empty.
There are proposals to use it somewhere, or wait for the respected publication should be modified? 
The Internet does not have to be everything. On this particular issue of the source data, is that the AI ​​is no doubt. In the encyclopedia articles are reviewed, so who the author really does not matter. What else could be a question? Tabachnik, by the way, "academic" Academy of Legal Sciences, and his PhD and doctoral available in the public domain, which is a direct violation of the Ukrainian VAK therefore consider it as AI, we can not in principle. 
You have not paid attention to the first link, and it's important. Under it provides a vivid example of the articles in this encyclopedia is clearly over-politicized and rife not scientific labels. All this despite the fact that, as you say, "in the encyclopedia articles are reviewed." Article about Bandera, in my opinion, too, refers to a set of political articles in this encyclopedia. As regards the allegations of Dmitry Tabachnik, then I'm not very interested in how the Ukraine is the title of academician, it is enough that the man it is (as you do not want to make a friendly court is editor of the Russian wiki, which can deprive academics title and they do not recognize the AI?). And if we assume that academic legal science can not give something to estimate from the historical point of view, so from a legal 
clearly overly politicized and full of shortcuts is not scientific 
No, it's not just my opinion. Director of the Center of Ukrainian and belorusistiki History Department of Moscow State University. MV Lomonosov Moscow State University, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor Mikhail Dmitriev: "The history of the Ukraine much more politicized than in Russia .... Ukraine has problems with the fact that something needs power from the historians. " That is why the use of AI as this encyclopedia, created by the Institute of History of Ukraine, it is highly doubtful.
Tabachnik written enough that there was no doubt as to his position on the issue. From any point of view. 
In his position there, but its purview is the most direct. Academician was not elected, although he tried. He was elected as a member of the Academy of Legal Sciences (which is not the Academy of Sciences), if a historian 
To assess the credibility of the source Wikipedia has a special page: WP: COI. Make it appropriate request, to state his case. 
Stumbled on the AI, which calls the object of Article not otherwise known terrorist, the leader of Ukrainian nationalists in the -'s. XX century. Author: Sergey Lantsov, Doctor of Political Sciences, Professor. I think that this is also a need for some TK displayed in the article. 
Why so little things? 
And than, say, "Entsiklopedіya іstorії Ukraine" is better than "A short course of ..."? 
In general, it's time to wrap up the debate. AI is given, if someone is not satisfied, there is WP: COI. A interview Tabachnik and famine 
In its current form the preamble completely contradicts the second pillar. As for the AI, it is of such quality that no attributsii way. 
Again, "the fish groshi." To change the look of the preamble of intermediaries. AI do not like 
Well, why WP: COI? We just insert "according to modern Ukrainian historians," and that's that. In the end, we have, there are other AI that said object article just a terrorist. 
I have four or five times, said: any change preamble 
In this case, I consider the involvement of intermediaries as a last resort, because it seems to me that Wikipedia administrators to abide by its rules and without external compulsion. I made an offer, and you, please respond to it (no ultimatums). 
This is not an ultimatum, but a statement of fact. Prior to my appearance here you yourself could not agree with the opponents and hardly able. But any change in the preamble, including the insertion of the phrase "according to modern Ukrainian historians" certainly will respond, for example, who can either insert the text "according to Western historians 
E. .. Strange you have the facts. To your appearance, I just started a discussion and a week waiting for someone to respond. The first came with you, at first glance, the design proposal. However, after analyzing it had to be rejected. Member Bogomolov.PL most articulated reasons and offered a fairly accurate statement, which can be taken as a basis. In reply, you are not answering the substantive motion, continued to push his formula (in the guise offers participants Blacklake) or wording member Mstislavl, which neneytralna, as participant was told not only by me. Naturally, after a discussion about this matter to the next round and now we have what we have: two administrators propihnul article nationalist proclamation and prevent her attributatsii and make an additional language.
You imagine the strange role of mediator. It is only a friendly control over the implementation of the rules for timely discussion and compromise proposals. You are unable to follow the rules? As for the "flood of kilometers" ©, then you have no one else to blame them (see above).
Threat to absolutely reassure you: I do not mind, "according to David Marples 
Incidentally, in Abstracts Marples Bandera called «Ukrainian nationalist leader», and the phrase «national hero» appears only in connection with this figure mythologization occurring at the moment in the Ukrainian «historical narrative of twentieth century Ukraine». Therefore, in all fairness, to hang on the glorification of Bandera Marples would be hasty. But the word is not a sparrow, once written, let it be. 
The preamble does not impose the detailed wording. Who, he thinks, is written in the article itself. 
Insert into article (anywhere) POV without attributsii we are not allowed as fundamental and more specific rules of Wikipedia. 
Dear Abarmot, for research question you are giving too much attention to Russian scientists and Ukrainian politicians specific orientation. Do not you think that in matters of the state's history is to listen to the opinion of our scientists? And in the opinion of foreign experts is meaningful to add to the amendment, "according to ...". In the part of white spots on the official website of the Institute of History, I think you just bad looking. 
A few words about the above source. First, write the 'movement for independence of Ukraine ", when at the source," Ukr. National-vizvol. ruhu "at least for the preamble is not acceptable, is a strong stretch and incorrectly reflects the essence of the movement. I do not think that the terrorist activities in  in the south-east of Poland may be described as a movement for the independence of Ukraine (then USSR). Now about the source itself. The information in it is taken from the two works:
Duzhy P. Stepan Bandera - symbol natsії, -. Lviv
Cook V. Stepan Bandera. Ivano-Frankivsk, . Booklet is about sotіy rіchnitsі s day narodzhennya Stepan Bandery i  rіchchyu stvorennya Organіzatsії Ukraїnskih Natsіonalіstіv.
Author of the first study - uk: Duzhy Petro Atanasіyovich, Ukrainsky pismennik, s assistant in  advocating the OUN.
By the second - Cook, Yegorov, cornet-general of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) after the death of Roman Shukhevych summer of  took all of his positions: head of the OUN (b) in the "Ukrainian lands", the Head of the General Secretariat of the main Ukrainian Liberation Council (UHVR) and Chief Commander of the UPA.
Both authors have no historical education and with an explicit engagement of the side of Ukrainian Nationalists. The choice of this literature does not speak in favor of O. J. Stasiuk and Entsiklopedії іstorії Ukrainy. The author also gives an incorrect date of Bandera in Sachsenhausen and mentions spetsbarak "Tsellenbau." Incidentally, the above encyclopedia has been criticized for similar reasons administrator Nicholas Putin.  
I think that is quite enough information for a request for VP: Koi to this source finally received its proper evaluation. Without such an assessment opponents will not hear any arguments. 
Others do not, so do not put this request 
First, do not have the EP: VOY, dear GrV, remove the template, without evidence, can be construed as vandalism (as you know, of course). Secondly, I can not pass judgment over all the "other", like you and is based on the above arguments in this discussion. Member Gleb Borisov gave specific information about the sources used to create the article about Bandera in Entsiklopedii. Obviously, such a text can not be considered an authoritative source. In addition, the same participant mentioned that the accuracy of the other articles in this encyclopedia has also been questioned by other participants. This means that the checkboxes template "check authority" fully justified. And so what will be checked by the authority 
I do not have the authority to confirm, it is confirmed by the Institute of History of Ukraine. You're trying to prove that the source neavtoriteten. What Duzhy and Cook unauthoritative be another matter, but since note is not on their work, and the other work that the transaction influential people in history, involving their work is another matter. What I agree with Gleb Borisov, is the fact that "the Ukrainian. National-vizvol. ruhu "translated is not quite true 
In this particular case, I do not try to prove anything, but simply pointing out that the editorial community had specific evidence to doubt the authenticity of this article written by the source, which is reflected put up a pattern. 
Reading of CO, it is clear that the claim is basically just you. I also want to once again skzat that this source is not entirely confirmed written language, as indicated by participant Gleb Borisov. If you set a pattern for a newspaper is understandable, but put this request enough authority to have some proof that I suggest to you to provide for WP: COI 
Did you read carefully. Gleb Borisov unequivocally questioned the reliability of the source of it, concrete evidence to do so. 
He offered questioned the authors, based on which the article was written in an encyclopedia. But not for the encyclopedia. Because the source code, and processed information and past editor of the review is not the same thing 
Abarmot in this discussion has already indicated that it is a retsenzirouemom edition. Accordingly, even if the authority odelnyh authors doubt, to this publication as a whole is not the case, because after reviewing the possible errors or eliminated, or the material does not pass. So the position is justified GrV 
I quote (as you seem to be that far not finish): "By the way, the aforementioned encyclopedia has been criticized for similar reasons administrator Nicholas Putin.  
The absurdity of some sort. Encyclopedia created the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences, as amended. College academics and doctoral degrees. Do you want to show non-authoritative - try looking at the KOI.
With Nikolai I led the discussion and any references to authoritative sources, which would be talking about non-authoritative AI NAS or a particular job, fraud, or anything like that he did not present (of course, that politicians and school teachers in this matter non-authoritative). will be some time, I'll see what's up with the fleet 
Let's not Entsiklopediyu generally at rest (although it has other drawbacks, as already pointed out). Focus on a specific article, in which Bandera describes different from other AI manner (ie, marginal). Because of this contradiction, we can not use the expression Entsiklopediey used as reference to describe the subject of the article. In addition, VP AI expressly limits the use of foreign-language sources and unofficial translations in the Russian Wikipedia. 
() "Marginal 
"By default, the view is the same AI NASU accepted in the scientific community." You forgot to add: the Ukraine. You yourself brought up the source article Marples, in which the glorification of Bandera is characterized not only as an example of «historical narrative of twentieth century Ukraine» (that is beyond the scope of science as such.) 
Well, Ukraine, and what? Of authority are not diminishing. 
Nothing much. It's just that we have here is not Ukraine, respectively misplaced and Ukrainian historical narrative. 
We got Encyclopedia in Russian, and not Russian Encyclopedia, but because no one country has the priority, whether it is Russia, Ukraine and Zambia. 
So why, then, in the preamble of Article preference is given to Ukrainian sources, and even on non-Russian language? 
() WP: AI says that "the Russian-language sources are always to be preferred sources in other languages ​​(with equal quality and reliability)." Only here you BDT themselves rejected, so we'll USE by the fact that there is. And what about the unofficial translations 
. Diffie confirm his words, "Only here BDT you yourself rejected." Something I forgot when this happened to me so irrevocably.
. Frankly, combinations of letters, "Ukr. Nat. - Vizvol. Ruh" seems to me a mystery. Not to mention the fact that it is strange to see in a peer-reviewed publication of the Academy of Sciences. But for some reason, you are saying that it is to translate, but still can not be interpreted properly. And on this basis, refuse to follow WP: AI.
. Where I called for the "use only Russian-language sources"? Diff, please.
. I want to remind you that the unfounded allegations of abuse ("this is a game with rules," "reductio ad absurdum") is a serious offense. Propose to hold discussions correctly, dear wanderer. 
. You painted a very long time, which can not be called Bandera "Ukrainian politicians" up to this: In other words, you admit that the use of the phrase "the Ukrainian politician" in reference to Bandera is a very, very specific (ie, marginal) sense. 
. Refer to any participant who owns Ukrainian. 
. Perhaps I do not understand, then I'm sorry. 
. Give. For example, since consensus on the authority of this encyclopedia between us, you can go to WP: COI. 
. All this is fine. But as this implies "Only here you yourself BDT boycotted?" What in the BDT mistake in the wording does not mean that it should be completely rejected as not the AI ​​(the same, incidentally, applies to Entsiklopedii. I suggest not to rely on it, where it openly lying, but her whole entire questioned substitute what you are. those that insist on its solidity).
. I trust you as much as "any party." You can not just give the official translation, as required by the rules.
. I apologize. Be careful.
. If we had a consensus, the discussion would be redundant. Appeal to WP: COI to this discussion is only indirectly related. Since revealed new evidence of bias and input source, we have to mark it with the appropriate template and to await the outcome of the EP: KOI, bude someone (you, me, or does there GrV party inquiry on the source).
. Let me remind you that we have a sufficient number of AI in Russian, which characterize Bandera much more neutral. 
) On the basis of personal opinion you mentioned formulation BDT marginal. As it can be understood? What do you personally think that the AI ​​is lying 
) So I say 
) No evidence of bias, I do not see. 
) "a sufficient number of AI in Russian" 
) I called Marginal not BDT wording and the meaning you are trying to make it by writing it here, "he declared in , the restoration of the Ukrainian state, including In this sense, it can be accurately called "Ukrainian political. figure." "The wording is BDT elementary wrong. It is not always written in Entsiklopedii, which is clearly visible propaganda bias.
) In other words, you're saying you can not bring Russian-language sources to the 'leader of the movement for the independence of Ukraine "(as well as the" leader of the Ukrainian national liberation movement "). As required. Arcade game with rules I still ignored, although the reuse of such a reception after the warning it is not ethical.
) You can not see, but others see it. The conclusion is clear.
) Please. I recall that it was a question of neutrality. So, the wording of BDT, though no less wrong, but more neutral. In addition, there is a phrase: Stepan Bandera Andreevich. Here's more: Stepan Bandera Andreevich. 
) Will not help you to transfer (iozhno unofficially), which means "the one Zaareshtovany gіtlerіvtsyami uv'yazneny have kontstaborі Zaksengauzen ( limes. )"? 
Arrested by the Nazis and prisoners in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp (July , ) 
Thanks a lot. What does "For kilka dniv by the 
A few days later 
I wonder how it managed to Bandera, sitting in Zaksenhauhene, meet in Berlin with Professor Koch? 
I assume that in Germany, too, were the funnel. 
Predpoozhit and I can not. But where the AI ​​that they were and that Bandera was brought from Sachsenhausen in this way? All the more so in the article itself says that on July  Bandera was released. 
There is even easier. The paper encyclopedias are two events in the same sentence 
So this is not the source is already obtained, and Vidal with a Sassoonom in one. In fact, some argue that this sitting under house arrest could safely hit the road from Berlin to Krakow. Not to mention the fact, to visit each other's proposals "not to chekayuchi areshtuvannya 
Normal source, just need to read it carefully. But Stetsko 
Other sources claim that the Sachsenhausen Bandera was taken not earlier than  January . In your source says "she uv'yazneny have kontstaborі Zaksengauzen ( limes. )." If this source is normal for you, we need to define the concept of a normal start. Stetsko unlike avtorshi articles Entsiklopedii was there, and no reason to lie to him in this place. 
It says that Zaareshtovany gіtlerіvtsyami uv'yazneny have kontstaborі Zaksengauzen ( limes. ) Do not engage elected quotations. By the way, I do not need to prove that he was in a concentration camp in the  th, I already know. In general, if you do not like the source 
I quoted selectively, since you still have to prove that the wording Entsiklopedii flawless. I am glad that you finally acknowledge that it is not. I do not know what about the Ukrainian language with the particle "the one", and the Russian particle "and" being employed for a bunch of two events with a particular date means that both of these events occur in the same day. Request for KOI filed. 
<-----
) Please, that's AI: Stepan Bandera, who became the most prominent figure in Western Ukrainian national liberation movement. (Journal of National History / Sciences. Institute of growing up. History.). 
) the book Terrorists Fommulirovka 
) I think I understood the reason for your rejection of this language. In fact Bandera unambiguously considered a champion of independence of Western Ukraine from Poland. Hence the phrase. 
) The AI ​​is not required. Since "the most well-known figure" is not a "leader" and "Western Ukrainian national liberation movement" is not "the Ukrainian national liberation movement." 
a) AI in the Ukrainian language is, and b) the distinction between "the most well-known figure" and "leader" are minimum) and that movement is not West-Ukrainian? 
a) The forensic, the AI ​​suffers weak reliability, and b) still have this face and I would not advise you to try to overcome it without the help of the AI, and c) is not identical to the total private, it is elementary. 
) Neutrality is not concealing facts, and with the presentation of their positions. I hope you do not aim to deny the facts of terrorism Bandera? As for the "freedom fighter," it is not a fact, and evaluation. You can detail what you mean when you say "the activities of Bandera wider than the OUN leadership"? 
And the "terrorist" and "freedom fighter" 
Yes, but the "terrorist" is an assessment of an authoritative source, and "freedom fighter" 
) What is unique? And why in the statement is not written on the Western Ukraine and Poland, as "one of the leaders of the movement for the independence of Ukraine"? 
Formulation 
In AI says "has become the most prominent figure in Western Ukrainian national liberation movement.» 
Because the program of the OUN-B should be read, not just cling to the points and commas. The goal was to achieve independence of Ukraine in general, not a separate part of it, west, east or north-west. Regarding terrorism, you can articulate who and when, under what laws (Poland, USSR, Germany, Mongolia) recognized Bandera terrorist? I think that in order to meet the neutrality, you will be hard to provide a specific legal act of any country of your choice, which clearly would have formulated the concept of "terrorism" to be valid at the time of the life of Stephen A. and on the basis of which against him would A criminal case on the grounds of "terrorism", even if (for neutral) and does not go through the courts. I hope you do not aim the denial of the presumption of innocence in legal practice in general and in particular in the construction of the encyclopedic? 
We discuss here the encyclopedic wording respected Miroljub Dobrognevovich so "clinging to the periods and commas" should not annoy you. If your goal 
I would ask you not to be concerned with the discussion of my emotional state on the grounds that it is not a subject of discussion in general, and this form of discussion is not welcome administration, because of the rules, in particular. What I put target deigned to enter into a discussion with you, it's only one I know, unless of course, you do not have psychic abilities. Therefore, and this issue, I would ask you not to touch. At the same time, on the other hand, I can assure you that I have been sufficiently guided by the issues that you are discussing here, because, as the Default, closely following the progress of the controversy. Proceeding from the little that is left of your post after filtering attempts personal attack of me, I can safely assume that, for some unknown reason to me, you do not fully become clear sense of my previous message. I'm not hard to explain easier, maybe I could. You have for a long time require AI confirming the wording regarding the leader of the national liberation movement, for various reasons 
I can not respond to you 
To date, there is only a clear definition of terrorism 
Your opinion about "the only clear definition of terrorism" will surely be appreciated by the discussion of the article, which somehow maintains that "Terrorism 
In TSB states that the last stage of capitalism, imperialism, followed by the socialist revolution. I take on the burden of proof back? Link to Yandex dictionary on your part, is somewhat not serious, given the fact that you also put into question the credibility of the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences of one of the European states. Authorship of the article to which you referred me to set hard, and therefore I have doubts as to the competence of person (group of people) who worked on the article. If you know the author, let's discuss. As part of the article Terrorism, it is believed that Wikipedia articles are not AI. The assertion that there is no single universally accepted legal definition of terrorism, there is no true, as in every country its criminal laws and the formulation is different. So I asked you before, and 
) Decide, please you have to take written in the AI ​​on faith (TSB this is AI?) Or to approach it critically. My approach (supported and VP AI) 
) As for your statement about my forgetfulness, I would note your confusion, read the discussion above on the page (you claim to do this carefully), there you will find the information you need, including the author. 
) "on the basis of the criminal law of the country which will qualify the Bandera." We will not qualify draws action on any basis. We will carefully study written in at our disposal AI. 
) In addition, we do not ascribe to other participants in the discussion of what they did: "You are calling into question the credibility of the Institute of History of the Academy of Sciences of one of the European countries." 
) Spontaneous mssledovaniya on the topic of the subject of study as science must be terrorism, certainly interesting and original, but the place they are not here, and in the discussion of the article. 
You are the source of lead? I can not guess which part of the discussion, to seek answers to their questions. 
Let's return to our muttons
Well. Again deadlock. I propose to return to the option "Ukrainian politician. ... In years 
I recall that we discussed the reliability of the source of the phrase "one of the leaders of the movement for the independence of Ukraine," and came to certain conclusions. Can you start to remove the link from the article on this source (and restore request)? 
We have not come to any conclusions. What I suggested kompromisny option, does not mean that I agree with you. Once you rate it so I write in the previous section. 
The purpose of the OUN 
VP: NETRIBUNA. Before drawing conclusions vyverte original data. 
And where do the Tribune? And what data should be checked, then that Bandera OUN leader, or that the purpose of the OUN was to build an independent Ukrainian state? 
Tribune though here an article about Bandera, and you proclaimed goals OUN the war. By the way, even if the original data in your syllogism are true, then the conclusion is still false. Because it is not the leader of the movement, he has his own goals (each of the leaders). 
The discussion of articles about Bandera, I gave you two statements that justifies a definition of the subject of the article. The fact that you have taken for the proclamation of my goals OUN is none other than one of these assertions. I do not identify with the leader of the movement, be careful. I merely stated the fact that Bandera was a leader of the movement a certain direction. 
) At least one of your statements are not based on the AI, so it is your return, and ) original research (which, in particular, are the conclusions of the form "A and B were sitting on the tube ...") expressly prohibited by Wikipedia. ) That you are not careful (again), as strikethrough refute me. 
Which of the two of the kind of statements are not based on the AI? Others consider your subjective opinion. 
You know, dear Miroljub Dobrognevovich, so do not keep the conversation (discussion in Wikipedia is talking). If you are constantly declaring arguments interlocutor "subjective opinions", unworthy of attention, the source does not have to pay attention to you. The more that you are not here yet generated nothing but subjective opinions and are not going to seem to make any improvements in the article. 
You too much attention to me personally. How do you explain your statement - "That you are not careful (again), as strikethrough refute me," but to the subjective evaluation of the discussion? Do you allow the illogical conclusion regarding my humble person and expect me positive response? I do not advocate to get personal in the discussion, in fact, I am against it. If you have me have a particular claim, indicate their scope and provide the appropriate arguments. Moreover, I have not written any where that perceive your arguments "unworthy of attention." I, so far, does not intend to make in the article any "improvements", but try to keep a separate statement in the article. The arguments I have given to. Your right not to pay any attention to me, but, in accordance with the rules of consensus, amendments to Article on the issues that you raised, can not be made. Let me tell you that you are the right "not to pay attention to me" is used twice 
Well, yes, I admit illogical conclusion, and you have one paragraph, "You are giving too much attention to me personally» vs «You are the right" not to pay attention to me "is used twice," but all the conclusions are logical. I will not analyze all written here before, it would take too much time and space, and few are interested. Just key points:
: go to the person ("You are too much focus on ...") VP: EPO (for comparison, the reaction to the mere mention of your condition and your assumption of a target , but it later), violation of WP: AI ( This rule is recommended to listen to a) authoritative sources, b) sources in Russian. And is not "our scientists" "non-specific", as you say, the orientation).
: contemptuous statement that I need to do ("Because of the OUN-B program should be read, not just to cling to the periods and commas") - EP: EP, then there you should be original research. Then the question is: "Can you articulate who and when, under what laws (Poland, USSR, Germany, Mongolia) recognized Bandera terrorist?" - I do not have to define it, as well as "reading program OUN" on this we have secondary AI. Rhetorical questions like, "I hope you do not put yourself to the denial of the presumption of innocence in legal practice in general, and in the encyclopaedic construction in particular?" Difficult for me to comment, since they are, in my opinion, have only an ornamental character.
: expressive introduction ("I would ask you not to touch ... What I put a goal ... it's only one I know ... I would ask you not to touch."), It is unknown where will the application ("Assuming some what remains of your post after filtering attempts personal attacks in my address ... ") and the like. At the end of the original study and again request the AI ​​on its basis (as if I have to back up your research sources). Meanwhile, the AI, which reinforces my TK, was at that time is given for more than two months.
, : .... in general, it's nothing new. What is called the EP: inaudible, intermittent Orissa and arguments about what the link "is somewhat not serious." Finally I had to try to structure the debate.
Instead of answering, essentially a request for a long time given the source and the complaint about what you can not. Naturally, the answer to that is nothing. I think we may still be best to suspend communication, as there is a complete lack of understanding. 
I understand that the answers did not really follow the theme and raised you closed? 
In essence what? The only specific request in your previous message was "If you have me have a particular claim, indicate their scope and provide the appropriate arguments." I responded to it, the desired range of approximately delineated. 
,  
VP: POKRUGU. 
Very good. So on this and stop. Hopefully, following this rule, the more you raise these questions will not. 
First, the Wikipedia article is not AI. And secondly, for the poets and writers essential language and ethnicity. Not government. 
For revolutionaries is also important. And AI 
You have something confused. TSB calls our hero is not a revolutionary, "politician" (which does not imply the destruction of the political system), which of course is not true, in combination with the adjective "Ukrainian" (). I do not think arbitration mediation would be the right answer to the crisis of legitimacy of the administrative community. Propose to take advantage of our advisory mediation, and the particular choice of candidate mediator postponed pending the outcome of this application. 
Where do skaypochat. Most of the proposed nominees to do with him not. Suggest candidates. A consultation has already tried mediation Blacklake, failed. 
We (at least I) do not know who has to skaypochatu. With all due respect to the participant, Blacklake trying to push your wording, not more. Since the procedure does not involve mediation advisory sudden appearance of a "mediator" without the consent of the parties to the conflict. 
Well, let's start with the advisory mediation. Candidacy I have already mentioned. 
If you are not satisfied with any of the proposed candidates, I can use any arbitrator, including the former. 
The proposal for a consensus in the preamble

Based on the observations, the wanderer «About" activity Bandera wider than the OUN leadership "
What we need is a mediator. 
The error in the article

I see that so far on the page there is a pattern
[Show] Heroes of Ukraine
Because with the decision of the Ukrainian court on June ,  is not true. I propose to remove this template. Source 
. The decision has not come into force. . Court exceeded its authority 
Thi

From a legal point of view of the law, the opinion of the president in this case does not mean anything. I will read the law again ... 
I ask the general opinion

The added information I had three otkatanna. Please help us find a mutual consensus.  rollback rollback rollback  
APTO
Once again I draw your attention that the article is in search of consensus. Look though, would be a pattern at the beginning of the rules of the regime. 
Read the rules 

Support. Add-ons are almost fully documented quotations, AI presented. Someone who claimed to be "not Dyukov AI 
That is until the discussion at KOI not over, no need to put it here 
Not accepted. ) There was no discussion on Dyukov for VP: Koi no ) Someone Tsybulenko vpihan a famous article, despite the fact that the debate on it was over. 
. Look archive KOI 
Suggeste
What exactly are important, and where the AI? 
I do not want is not in any way take away someone's answer, but I will try to express my opinion (if someone other - please add). I see in your offer two questions, "Where AI" and "What exactly are important," I will try to answer both (I hope you forgive me for the choices):
"Where is AI?"
First, if you please: This revision has links to book written by a historian. The man has put heart and signed up for the book (and not just shout any slogans on the forum under the nickname vymyshennym. I think he knew how much dirt on him for this will go but all the same, and did not hesitate to write.) Writing a book is a man for work history, human thesis. He defended his dissertation on the history of Rome is not the time of King such and such ... but on "Formation and development of management Soviet partisan movement, - years." Links in revision of the book historian, and not just on the blog of a theorist.
In vrot: In this revision of all the quotes historian but his research also confirmed as accurate sources:
Ukraïnske derzhavotvorennya. Act  chervnya . C. ; TSDAVOV. F. . Op. . D. . L. 
OUN in  rotsi. Part . S. , Part . Pp. , , 
Ukraïnske derzhavotvorennya. Act  chervnya . S. 
TSDAVOV. F. . Op. . D. . L. , D. . L. -, D. . L. , Op. . D. . L. .
V'yatrovich V. representation OUN to єvreїv. Pp. 
Hong MM Iz on samoti falsehoods. S. 
Third: The data source (listed in the second paragraph above) only as cited in the editing - all the sources in the book a lot more.
"What exactly is important?".
M is not a shame, that the Jewish and Polish people are so affected by the Bandera (and they are not alone.) But I was doubly sad that today in Ukraine there are people who deny what happened. People are willing to take any steps to conceal the truth. Denial is the first step to repeating ... This correction is important to let people know that it is over and that does not happen again ... (Sorry if I have inadvertently offended - my tselyu it was not).
Viggen
No, do not answer. Dyukov by a controversial article and override his opinion there is no reason. The fact that he refers to archival documents does not mean anything 
* Read your, dear Viggen, I have two questions for you: (a) where does Solonin? (B) description of your contribution Dyukova remains no more than your personal opinion as long as you do not provide any peer review at Dyukova and in which the authority's opinion would coincide with yours. You have such sources are available? So far, all you have written 
To quote one of the administrators of KOI: "First, once again, who is Dyukov? He has a degree in history? No. It is printed in peer-reviewed scientific journals? Either. It is the State Historical institution? Again, no. Well, what value and what atoritet have his statements, how they differ from the statements of any person in the street? In terms of history, Mr. Nobody can call him. "
I'm sorry, but I think that we are not going in circles Narok. Due to the fact that he had made this subsection is postarayu ease some discussion (okkuratnym want to be and if by chance some inadvertently Comment Bind your opinion - please correct). My goal sensible discussion and coming to a mutual consensus (as far as possible). I tried predostvit facts podtverzhdayushie importance and significance of the facts oprovergayushsche:
Our arguments for:
a. For 
b. For 
This 
c. For 
. For 
. For 
. For 
. For 
. For 
. For 
Our counter-arguments:
a. Against - "Dyukov not AI -  times discussed"
a. 
a. Against - I quote one of the administrators of KOI: "First, once again, who is Dyukov? He has a degree in history? No. It is printed in peer-reviewed scientific journals? Either. It is the State Historical institution? Again, no. Well and what value and what atoritet have his statements, how they differ from the statements of any person in the street? In terms of history, n no one to call his no. (Viggen) (Sorry, I'm not sure, but to mine this quotation may be contrary to the Item A-E.).
b. Cons 
-. Cons 
Torn apart quotations may distort the overall picture. For example, if an article about the Soviet Union put only quotes about Chekotilo, you might get the impression that the Soviet Union lived alone maniacs. 
Notes: i.) If any proposal to the strikethrough is not true 
The opinion of the author Alexei Ilyich Miller - Russian scientist, doctor of historical sciences, senior researcher of the Institute of Scientific Information for Social Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences:
... "Dyukov - Director of the Historical Memory. Young man, about his  with a small, graduated seem Historical Archives, ever since the profession was not working. Until recently. Created funds and somewhere for three or four books a year now publishes. Where the trust is funded, it remains anyone's guess. I managed to read two books. first book devoted to the policy of the UPA - Ukrainian Insurgent Army against Jews. book on the content more or less decent. But then how would match intentions and historical truth turns out. What's in this book is striking, because it is a lot of material from the archives of the FSB, which, as noted, was first introduced in the scientific revolution. How did he get them? memorialtsev have to ask, how do they get the documents from the FSB. Perhaps it plain and simple case "Politics of History: update. Lecture Alexei Miller. - Public lectures Polit.Ru,

Beautiful quote, thank you for it led. Such an assessment of Dyukova by renowned historian as "a book on the content of a more or less decent" speaks for itself. For the rest 
Thanks for the quote of the views of Miller. I just think the confirmed quote Dyukova significance, and your comment is not in its entirety may not be entirely correct (as inadvertently withheld objectivity and nenaroshnoe misleading Miller). Who will explain what I mean:
Quotes of Miller shows that not one but Dyukov ditrektor Historical Memory Foundation. Believe me, not everyone on the street to such income - especially in young Return - then it's worth it.
Miller is seen from the quotation, dear Alexey I. Miller unfortunately did not know exactly what the quote says: "graduated seem Historical Archives." Making such judgments would be worth to check the information and not to say what they think. Next protivorchit Miller himself: "Never since the profession was not working" and then says "out of three or four books a year now publishes" - the publication of books on the history of the historian's work is not?
Quotes of Miller: "The first book devoted to the policy of UPA - Ukrainian Insurgent Army against Jews. Book in content, more or less decent." - In my opinion the argument for and not against Dyukova :) Miller did not find how to refute Dyukova as a historian, but doubted how to get access to the archives of the Russian FSB.
An
Absolutely, that's where that quote and I led. A rating of "more or less", heard publicly from the lips of the venerable historian, as in my opinion, can only have one value 
Wit
Here I am about 
Explai
Look in the archive 
That'
I wrote in the "context" read, please carefully. While discussing it on a lot of koi. In any case, how does this affect the proposal to put it on koi? 
IMH
One more note to the opponents Dyukova 
I
This is why it is not so? From here these criteria's credibility
Is the author of a respected expert in the field? To determine this, have to answer some questions:
Published a work of the author on the subject in prestigious scientific journals? Were received negative reviews from well-known experts in the field to the previous or the current publications of the author? A link to the author's as a reliable source of other authors working in the field, in their articles (also published in scientific journals)? Do's degree in the field of knowledge?
Dyukov, as far as I know, the two parameters passed (negative opinions of professionals not (more positive opinion of Miller, as a historian, the question at the Miller - "where the money?", But if a professional point of view, no complaints, we are, in fact, it it should not matter 
↑ Central Archive of the Russian FSB
By Dyukov respected HOBOPOCC, I'm totally straight, without emotion, as I do not have personal reasons such as a special way to treat him. Perhaps, it is quite a nice person and interesting writer, not argue, but let remind you that in respective subjects of authors such as selective approach to the sources. Those sources, which can be found that the positive articles on the subject, understood by screws and bolts, check their pedigree to the subject in life, you have all the requirements of the EP Rules of AI (currently not hunt rummage CO data items for the last few years). In the end, if there is at least some information that the author (even if all the signs of the AI), this part of the material was placed in a section unambiguously "UPA-OUN (b) on its own version, and their supporters." That is, no one notices that there are two versions of the events 
* Vs. Miroljub Dobrognevovich, the reason will not respond to your comments simple 
* You have changed your mind about not responding? Colleague HOBOPOCC, for what you were not able to inexperience, "a warning" a year ago? For the fact that you lost the debate, went to my CO and called me a demagogue? Not only that, apparently, you have it and are proud of, adding to its current response to a reference to the event. By the way, make an offer, but a warning administrators endure. 
* Anything can happen, but here's my trolling no one accused))) Are you sure that you understand the correct meaning of this phenomenon? By the way, a few years on the project, in contrast to their opponents, not only did I have never been banned, but did not have the warning.))) Basically, your point of view, I understand, you can not answer. 
Two comments:
Legal rights, the fact that someone had not violated any law is not an argument in support of the fact that this man can not break it in the future.
In replica "Vs. Miroljub Dobrognevovich, the reason will not respond to your comments simple 
(Thoug
There is a science 
Probabl

Thank you this will help resolve our disskusii as it will be easier to solve. I also applied for the review istochnka used to paragraphs  and  (or more precisely: Ukrainian derzhavotvorennya. Chervnya Act  ). Thank you all for your continued momoschyu in discussion 
The proposal does not go beyond the subject of the article

I think that would be the right stick to the topic articles and represent its subject. If an article about Bandera as personalities are likely not worth here as a rubbish pit to dump all that in any way for his fellow party members, members of the movement and agitmaterialov that qualified geographical divisions. 
If the article is written that someone (not a historian, in our case Novodvorskaya 
Novodvorskaya publicist and politician, and the politician influential, one of the most prominent Soviet dissidents and their opinion is that it means. But that's not the case ... If you pay attention, we present the statement in part directly Novodvorskaya Bandera, not "Bandera and his team." You're in denial of her opinion is information on Stetsko, Klimov and content of individual leaflets, starting with the phrase "in spite of it ...". What does this have to Bandera himself? Where rebuttal statements Novodvorskaya regards Bandera? I find it necessary to cancel your edits as not directly related to the subject of the article. 
Your position is clear. Initially my edit has been rejected due to doubts about the legitimacy of sources. Well, tabled ... awarded 
We talk a little bit about different things. I stress again that the article directly on Bandera and his personal role in the story. Everything related to Stetsko makes sense to make the appropriate article. And I would ask you, if you can not evaluate my actions 
I'
I can answer your questions. Sorry that did not do it before, so it seemed to me that the answers are obvious. Any law, which required the consent of Bandera were not adopted as laws of the host state, and the state lasted very short time. Just did not do it. Do not extreme Bandera, I can not answer, because I could not see myself the question 
If the article does not erstwhile Novodrvorskoy replica, then I would not add to the facts. However, due to the fact that it is added to Article adding her remarks made to try to show a side view. It tries to show the replica from which is not exactly objective should therefore be to give a more objective assessment of the situation. The page is a template: "Check neutrality.". This replica is less than neutral, especially in light of the facts I have shown. Further, if it was for the Jews and against the killing that would retain such data, that oh played for them - but they are not. Silent when his men are killed at least according to my agreement.
Now the answer to each of the items:
a. Any law, which required the consent of Bandera were not adopted as laws of the host state, and the state lasted very short time.
You're right, we can replace the word "laws" to "indications of people whose power was not the recognition." I think the main thing here is not what laws or not, but how do Bandera advised of these guidelines and what they did following them.
b. Do not extreme Bandera, I can not answer, because I could not see myself the question - what do you think some of his extreme?
Yes, that even if he does not resist and did not try to resist the decrees caused against humanity and against the Jews even though he was in power. After all, if he did not agree with the policy of killing Jews he could say a word, I'm not talking business, to show 
a. Bandera is not responsible for the actions of members of his party, to which he gave no indication as a leader.
But he did not answer. And no one accuses. His credit at least that he did not resist this once. And that should be disclosed in the subject. I would initially made but editing would have removed as even the first act of "Ukraïnske derzhavotvorennya." for the source do not think ...
For a long time he was even deprived of the ability to effectively lead, as he was isolated in a German concentration camp.
But with this, I'm sorry, let fundamentally disagree. From an article about Bandera, we see that "the Germans arrested Bandera after a few days after the act of proclamation of the Ukrainian state - July , ." A prizyby against Jews were openly written before June ,  in "Ukraïnske derzhavotvorennya. Chervnya Act  of . S. " - this was before his arrest. If he did not agree with the persecution of the Jews he could fix the act.
Initially, I would have easily compromised and would remove my facts if removed replica Novodvorskaya, but after trying all doubt from the fact data sources leash would gloss over the truth, I think that her remarks and facts have a right to life. Notice in the supplement I even indirectly tried to show that it was for the murder of Jews, or consent to the murders 
Dear APTOC, everything that you've just outlined, it is your personal conclusions. Maybe they are correct, but all based on personal findings fall within the definition ORIS. Do you have a specific data confirmed AI directly refute the words Novodvorskaya? If there is, make changes on the basis thereof, if not, cancel your edits in this piece, as not directly relevant to the topic. Try not to walk around and remember that Wikipedia does not stand. 
Yes ... in two phases charges Oris, walk around and stand. I thought we were discussing the article and not my actions, but okay. In this paper, after the addition no changes Oris does not appear (we already went through that Dyukov and primary sources not ORIS). Next, I just do not go around 
Dear colleague APTOC, to the above I have nothing to add. Your arguments about the necessity of your recent additions have not convinced me, as a result of the discussion on this issue is no consensus. I have to cancel your edits for the following reasons:
Supplement does not contain direct information on Bandera as personalities, describes the actions of third parties.
Addition is not contrary to the view Novodvorskaya, as it contains no information about any person Bandera calls for the extermination of the Jews, at the same time, sets a goal, starting with the phrase "in spite of this opinion Novodvorskaya," which is a substitute item of evidence.
Independently, by itself, the addition does not fit the theme of partition as it does not contain the public.
Reasoning need this supplement, only in that it is based on the AI, in itself, a basis for making it in the article can not be in the presence of the above three points. 
Sorry, but canceled without my consent is also not a consensus. Secondly, if you so want to show that Bandera was personally against the Jews and want to direct calls Bandera against Jews - you get - I had to search, but I found them. AI to have been confirmed by You:
Morning of July  on the walls were plastered with regional appeal wires OUN (B):
"The people! Know! Moscow, Poland, Hungarians, Jews - it's your enemy. Destroy them!
Know! Your guide - is the Ukrainian Nationalist it SWNTs.
Your leader - Stepan Bandera. "    
Thanks
To cancel the changes, introduced without discussion, on which consensus had not been reached, a new consensus is needed))). She canceled unconditionally. I'm glad you finally, after actively began to edit articles with the same theme, began to "go into the subject." I, for one, if not in the subject in the articles of chemistry, their rules do not presume. In light of the above you access the Local Headquarters OUN (b) advise further "delve into the subject," to understand the structure of the OUN (b) in general, and in the difference between the Local Headquarters and central wire OUN (b) in particular. I hope this is an intuitive help answer the question 
Allow me to add? Dear APTOC, how can you explain the following situation? Your last revision contains information that "One of the examples is the fact that the morning of  July, the walls were plastered with regional appeal wires OUN (B), signed by the Bandera:" The people! Know! Moscow, Poland, Hungarians, Jews 
We will not reduce to an absurdity. The leaflets were signed "Your leader 
You obviously casually read 
Peacefulness, a depression in the topic, I was referring to your particular case. I am familiar with the theme of the first sources. I spoke to the people in Ukraine who are seen with their own eyes and the murder of the Jews, so I read a lot. No need to somnevatsya in my competence. The second time I ask you not to discuss a paper. Just please do not misinterpret the fact that he wrote. "Adoption Klimov that the Ukrainian leader Bandera is confirmed by the fact that Bandera personally called for the destruction of the Jews?". You take  words and tears apart. "" The people! Know! Moscow, Poland, Hungarians, Jews 
Where did you get this confidence that the appeal signed Bandera? I have nothing like this in the source is not found. Could you cite the place where it is all about? 
You distort the meaning of written in revision APTOC. It has been written that the appeal signed Bandera. Russian language there were "over the signature of Bandera." That is fully consistent with the best of our AI. And with your approach here and Hitler no directive has not 
Explain to me the difference between "signed Bandera" and "over the signature of Bandera." You have seen the document? Where there signature Bandera? 
Do not override the facts. You know very well that your scan as I did not use the AI, though the text is similar. My AI in the footnotes. At the end of my AI wrote "Your leader 
Sca
I think that's an option acceptable to all:
"On the walls were plastered with regional appeal wires OUN (B) containing the following appeals:
"The people! Know! Moscow, Poland, Hungarians, Jews - it's your enemy. Destroy them!
Know! Your guide - is the Ukrainian Nationalist it SWNTs.
Your leader 
Dear Abarmot, I think I realized what was happening. I quote from circulation Dyukova taken out of context, and ends with the phrase, "Your leader 
I take into account your opinion in your last sentence, there is nowhere stated that a leaflet was podipis Bandera. Get a grasp. 
Then, even more so, this text has no relation to the section of public opinion in general, and to the approval Novodvorskaya in particular. What then are we arguing? 
This text is relevant to the section. Bandera just named him the leader of the movement, engaged in the destruction of the Jews, which is somewhat contrary to the purity of the latter. 
Where there is "Bandera directly called leaders of the movement," and even "take" (past tense) the destruction of the Jews? The people of this movement? And why now divert discussion away? It originally was a member of the desire to refute the Novodvorskaya, based on publications Dyukova. As long as this does not work. Or add on a "do not care so be on the safe side"? About the purity do not understand. 
Can we move on from the barrage to the absurdities of form factor? The fact that claims to be the Fuhrer All Ukraine as Führer in "zhidounichtozhitelnoy" organizations certainly significant, around this silence can not be one way or another, the AI ​​is. Promote your language, and do not cling to the days of the sacraments (I have there is a spelling error was made, if that). You can add this to another section if you do not want a light tarnish the name Valerie Ilyinichna. 
"Bright name" Valerie Ilinichny until "ruin" does not work. All attempts to refute what was said in that hour do not succeed. If it does not get distracted from the topic of discussion. 
 Lord
Well, I found that after three weeks of debate and find direct evidence, confirmation AI we can add to the article. I would like to know when we can finally add an edit? What to do in the case where one party (or group) is trying to prevent the addition of the truth? Prompt. I still stand on the issue of mediation and arbitration in the Selected only participant who has already shown in this experience. Now just try to treat something, and it is only a discussion and I am not basic result 

I do not mind. 
Thank you for such a "peaceful" response! Yes, the mediator in this case 

Formulation
The proposal is 
I have no objections. The question wording. I have proposed a "one of the leaders of the Ukrainian nationalist movement" caused a violent reaction, "one of the leaders and ideologists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists" was ignored. 
Hence "on
A similar approach on my part caused objections of opponents before the article was put on the mode of seeking consensus. 
Thank you for responding and I apologize, that rarely happens 
.. "On

SW
Than
Added
Corrected
That's right, my oversight about the "signature" 
It is unclear why the "call for violence" if the organization is not only encouraged, but also directs and mass murder (see Volyn massacre, for example). 
Well, all won Novodvorskaya. It is not clear what relationship Stetsko, leaflet Local Headquarters for , and so has a "modern public opinion." I certainly understand the burning desire for a number of participants compete with Valerie Ilinichnoj, but maybe it makes sense to do in the article about her? Or a burning desire, as one of the participants of "tell the truth" outweighs the requirement is reasonable and objective presentation of the material? What does this add to the formulation that Bandera was a leader of the "call for violence"? Tell me, what political forces that participated in World War II did not call for violence? Or were those who fought for the chess table? Please, just - "Bandera was extremely angry", period. At what is in the article about Bandera template "Holocaust"? He participated in the extermination of the Jews, or in person to organize? Where and when? During his stay in Sachsenhausen? Sorry, but the article on individual points is carried to absurd ... 
The rhetorical question, whether to participate in the destruction of the Jews Bandera, you can answer that a number of AI said that being in Bandera Tsellenbau not stop him lead the OUN (b). And in any case, he just manages the organization at the beginning of the war, when the OUN (b) actively participated in the Holocaust. 
Would like to wish you success in combat and political training and did not take part in this play, but still, I can not ask a couple of questions 
First of all, keep yourself, your statements are disrespectful to opponents and a violation of the EP: EP. Second, in order not to go into a long list of sources, quotes, and the jungle casuistry similar to ascertaining whether participated OUN (b) in the Holocaust "as a legal entity," personally give two references of Bandera. First from the site of the Simon Wiesenthal Center (), excerpt (in my translation): "Stepan Bandera, a Ukrainian nationalist leader, whose followers have killed thousands of Jews and others during World War II." etc. The second from the site Yad Vashem (), an excerpt: "The Germans ... Bandera was sent to Sachsenhausen. He kept in touch with his friends, and eventually released in  ... »
If you can, please reply directly to questions. 
Not going to answer allegations invented (I did not say anything about any legal entities, as well as the fact that a number of AI says that "from Bandera Tsellenbauma led OUN involvement in the Holocaust"). Once again, rearranging theses places, it may be more clear: ) the number of AI said that Bandera led OUN (b) at the beginning of the war, when she actively participated in the Holocaust (AI , ,  ), ) the location of Bandera in Tsellenbau not prevent him to lead the OUN (b) (AI , one of the main initiators of .. Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA), has made the replacement of its chief commander Klyachkivskogo his protege Dmitry R. Shukhevych 
You can not answer, it is your right, but in this case, stop right article. Theoretically, this encyclopedic article, not an essay on "How much I hate to Bandera." Your message: rhetorical question, whether to participate in the destruction of the Jews Bandera, you can answer that a number of AI said that being in Bandera Tsellenbau not stop him lead the OUN (b). And in any case, he just manages the organization at the beginning of the war, when the OUN (b) actively participated in the Holocaust. I once again ask for confirmation of the facts direct management actions OUN Bandera as an organization (legal entity) by a planned extermination of the Jews as a nation. If not, please remove the category of "Holocaust" as untrue. 
Th
It is unfortunate that you could not in fact answer my questions. Thanks for the criticism. I highly appreciate the opinion of the administrator, although the nature of the charges I was not entirely clear. I did not understand on what grounds I violated generally accepted standards of ethics. 
VP: inaudible. On my statements are AI, confirm their own. Further "logical" umopostroeniya without reference to authoritative sources consider bringing to the point of absurdity, this let the admins understand. 
You did not answer the question 
In his own words a long story, better read the sources, I shared them with you. If you do not speak the language, ask for help from someone you trust, along with the authority to vote. (I seem to you trust not) 
Did you try it in a nutshell 
First, your "request" is set out in a rather impolite form (or I could just ignore it, in accordance with the Do not feed the trolls.) Second, the rejection of the AI ​​based on ignorance of the language looks thus delaying the discussion under the formal pretext (that is classified by the rule VP NDA). Third, no one can compel other participants to do anything, justifying it with their own shortcomings. For all these reasons, I could use a proven method of Russian or simply not respond. However, that no one has created illusions about what you do here, move the pair of fragments from the first AI (let others correct me if my translation is inaccurate): ) "The historian Karel Berkhoff, like others, has shown that Bandera and his representatives and the Nazi obsession with one thing in common, namely the idea that the Jews were behind the Stalinist communism and imperialism, and must be destroyed. "Soviet Jews," the statement read in Bandera, "it is the most loyal supporters of the Bolshevik regime and the vanguard of Muscovite imperialism in the Ukraine." When the Germans invaded the Soviet Union in June  and captured the capital of Eastern Galicia, Lviv, Bandera deputies proclaimed the Declaration on its behalf. They promised to work together with Hitler, and then helped to unleash mayhem, in which in a few days killed four thousand Jews, with weapons from rifles to a metal bar. "We'll put your head to the feet of Hitler," the leaflet said Bandera Ukrainian Jews. ")" It is sad to note that the rights enshrined in January Hero of Ukraine, headed the movement, which was deeply involved in the Holocaust. "Source: , the author . 
Thank you. As I understand it, we have a statement by Karel Berkhof that "Deputy Bandera" "helped to unleash mayhem, in which in a few days killed four thousand Jews." I have several questions:
How much an associate professor at the Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies in Amsterdam, Karel Berkhof is a specialist in the history of Ukraine?
Based on what materials Karel Berkhof makes such a conclusion?
How "Deputy Bandera" "helped unleash mayhem"? And who helped them in this?
In any case, this does not prove direct personal role in Bandera. We are talking about some unnamed deputy. 
In this case, we have some other statement, and several other authors. Statement: "The historian Karel Berkhoff, like others, has shown ...". Your questions to the wrong address, please contact the author. Similarly irrelevant subsequent arguments. I was warned that I would be treated like "logical" reasoning as a violation of WP: NDA. 
I do not think graduate from Amsterdam respected scholar, like other such. You have not shown where in any historical writings authoritative historians proven that the direct participation of the OUN in the systematic destruction of the Jews and the direct management of this process personally Bandera. Where, when, by whom, what actions were taken? Thank you. 
Any member has the right to assess the credibility of the source with the help of other members on the page WP: COI. At the moment, we have an estimate of the scientist, to advise the U.S. government and the government of Germany. This assessment outweighs personal assessment of one editor of Wikipedia. Because in addition to asking meaningless questions you obviously have nothing to say, I think this section of the discussion ended. 
You just insulted me as a participant in the project, considering me as a man who "besides asking meaningless questions have nothing to say." You are in the category of advanced stamped confirmation statement, which could not confirm. The table you quote an associate professor (research assistant), there is no information that Bandera led the destruction of the Jews. In addition to that you refuse to hold discussions. 
If you felt offended the phrase, you can always go to any forum administrator (if you want, I will go myself). There you can be your reasons for weight and the way of the discussion. 
The table you quote an associate professor (research assistant), there is no information that Bandera led the destruction of the Jews. You put forth a statement that has not yet been confirmed by the sources. On the subject of the dispute in the article itself, there is no information. Considering the above, the fact that the article would refer to the project "Holocaust" no reason. 
And even if you might be interested 
I proved . And for the constant violation of the EP: unheard of you I do not defendant. 
You are the link to open? Where there is a question of Karel Berkhof in particular, and its authority in general? 
Imagine 
Miroljub, I think that in light of the AK AK , to which a party Abarmot likes to appeal, you must contact the administrator mandatory. 
Sources confirm Bandera personal role in guiding goal-oriented, systematic destruction of the Jews as a nation Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists
Dear Abarmot, if you pay attention to the content of the above discussion, I have repeatedly asked you to provide evidence to support a direct involvement of OUN in purposeful, systematic extermination of Jews and personal role in this process, Bandra, since you have put forward this statement to justify the fact that the article was assigned to the project Holocaust. For several days I tried to find out on what basis these findings were made. In support of its assertion you quoted from the work of Karel Berkhoffa, which in no way your statement does not confirm. In all of this, to my request to confirm at least the authority's website, you link to a description of another author 
Dear Miroljub Dobrognevovich, I was the most constructive and led the five () AI to support his claim. So long as you do not understand in English, I had to translate for you personally two excerpts from one of these AI: Article Norman Gouda. If you can not understand it all, or do not see in these passages confirm my words, then I have already can not help you, sorry. 
Norman Gouda we have not discussed, and it works you quote to prove his point of view does not lead. Tell me where you quoted this author, because I have the impression that you are not telling the truth. If I'm wrong, happy to apologize to you. 
If you love to, please, apologize . This was a direct translation of the two fragments of articles Gouda, at the end of his remarks that I have. 
Sorry, I did not finish. By and large, this issue is not very principled. Regardless of who the author is, the mentioned quotation does not say where, when and how the actions of the OUN Bandera led to the destruction of the Jews. The text is not a case of Bandera, and about his deputies and accused them (deputies) did not put direct participation or organization of pogroms, but the fact that they "helped to unleash mayhem," but it is unclear to whom (who immediately launched a pogrom). Do you understand? Not separated, and helped and Bandera and his deputies. I suggest the following 
Thanks for the discussion. Presumably to date facts available. 
Your method of discussion is very unconstructive. 
Notes

↑ Dyukov AR Secondary enemy. OUN, UPA, and the solution to the "Jewish question" / Fund "historical memory." - nd ed. rev. and add. - M., . - . with. .
↑ Ukraïnske derzhavotvorennya. Act  chervnya . S. ;
↑ rotsi OUN in . Part . S. , Part . S.
↑ TSDAVOV. F. . Op. . D. . L. , D. . L. , Op. . D. . L. .
↑ Version :,  January 
↑ Dyukov AR Secondary enemy. OUN, UPA, and the solution to the "Jewish question"
Category: Heroes of Ukraine

Thi
According to the Ukrainian legislation on awards to "deprivation Hero performed by the Decree of the President on the basis of judgment." Thus the judgment means that the President now has the right to sign a decree on the basis thereof, but does not deprive Bandera Hero automatically. Word by Yanukovych. We'll have to wait a little longer ... More here: 
What you write is true only in the "event of a conviction for a serious offense of the award on the proposal of the court in the cases provided by law." Based on that the whole argument in your link. There's some reason forgot that if the decision to award the title was initially illegal, Yushchenko's decree is invalid and of no deprivation are not talking. Depriving only one who became a Hero of Ukraine legally. 
Th
Repeal the law decree of the President can only president, and not the court, here you are right. But the court can verify the validity of the decree, and if it is not found, and there is nothing to cancel, since the decree was originally considered invalid. 
I
The court's decision in this case concerned only the illegal use of Bandera. For others to file individual lawsuits. I think that the Soviet citizenship and belonging to the USSR in the matter may well be equated to the citizenship of Ukraine. This is the court to decide. At Bandera is not even a Soviet citizenship, so there is no issues at all. 
Being in Sachsenhausen

I think that should be supplemented by the following text: "Various sources indicate different date of Bandera in Sachsenhausen. In some states in January  (Berkhoff, KC and M. Carynnyk 'The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and Its Attitude toward Germans and Jews: Iaroslav Stets'ko's  Zhyttiepys' in: Harvard Ukrainian Studies, vol.  (), nr. /, pp. -.), the other in March  (Per A. Rudlіnґ, Yuschenkіv Nazis: Kulta Bandera in Ukraїnі that Kanadі, Passion for Bandera: ARTICLES that eseї, T. S. Amar, I. Amar, I. Balinsky, Y. Balinsky, J. Ґritsak, Ґranі-T  (Serіya De profundis), ISBN ----, s.) or October  (). Bandera himself claimed that he was at the camp in  (). »
Of March  
How is this not the AI? . Interview with Bandera was published in his own book, "The prospect ukraїnskoї revolyutsії." 
Well, then you must provide a link to the book. 
So? Explanations? 
And why is the AI? Who are the TS Amar, I. Balinsky, J. Hrytsak? There are comments from the experts? 
This collectors, they had nothing to do with it. Here the author, he is an expert: Prof. Per Anders Rudling. 
Maybe better to refer directly to the work Rudlinga? For my part, then just will not be any objections. 
And where is given me the link? (I hope you can see the text in the Scribd?) 
I have shown - "fascist Yuschenkіv: cult Bandera in Ukraїnі that Kanadі" Strastі for Bandera: ARTICLES that eseї, organize. TS Amar, I. Balinsky, J. Hrycak (Kyiv: Grani-T Serіya De profundis, ): -. "Iushchenkiv fashyst: kul't Bandery v Ukraini ta Kanadi" ["Yushchenko's Fascist: the Bandera Cult in Ukraine and Canada" in Tarik Cyril Amar, Ivan Balyns'kyi and Yaroslav Hrytsak (eds.) Strasti za Banderoiu: statti ta esei [Passions over Bandera: Articles and Essays] (Kyiv: Seriia De profundis, Hrani-T, ): -. Ukrainian by Per Anders Rudling. 
by Per Anders Rudling
Below the text box is Scribd, which displays the text. You probably wrong set in the browser. 
% * Yes, this is my browser. You just need to provide a link to the classic form 
Take a look at the beginning of this topic, please. There's even an ISBN and page indicated. 
Sprinkle ashes. 
That is, do not mind adding text in the article, perhaps? 
When correctly attributsii, why not ... 
I'll put the information in the article as proposed, and is attributed to you as you think correct. 
Basically, just fine out. 
too bloated Forums

I think at the moment the sections "Assignment and deprived of the title of Hero of Ukraine" and "honorary citizen" too bloated and more like a news portal than sections encyclopedia article. Not necessarily every bit of news that appears in the media, to duplicate here in a separate paragraph. You have to write something that is important from a historical point of view. For example, in the section title of honorary citizen can simply list the list of cities in a single sentence, and give references. 
-

In this section, violation of the chronological sequence. I think we need to rearrange some paragraphs places for easy perception article reader. 
Preamble

I changed a little preamble and add the neutral definition: Ukrainian politician and nationalist. I think these definitions do not carry any positive assessments (such as party national liberation movement) or negative (called the killings) in accordance with WP: NPOV and examples given there. 
Such issues are better discussed in advance. The question of the wording "the Ukrainian politician" has already been discussed in Section Nationalist whether the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and rejected on the basis of lack of subject matter of any articles of Ukrainian citizenship and the presence of the Polish and German. 
I think given that he was a nationalist, then first and foremost important to formal citizenship, and ethnic self-determination. 
Slovoochetanie "Ukrainian nationalist" would be true. But the "Ukrainian politician" 
Moreover, this definition is given in the BDT and New Encyclopedia Publishing House Terra. In my completely authoritative sources. 
This tertiary sources, VP AI recommends using them only in extreme cases. Imprecision of the phrase has already been demonstrated. Besides, there are other similar sources, which use different formulations (sources in the same section). 
Wikipedia 
In this case, it would have a fourfold source. 
This is where in the tertiary sources recommended only as a last resort? Quote can be? 
I find it hard to understand the way this phrase (Wikipedia: AI # Nekotorye_opredeniya): "Tertiary source, in turn, summarizes the secondary. Wikipedia in most cases is a tertiary source. " Besides, I have not seen anywhere else in the rules mention tertiary sources. 
This is simply inaccurate wording. Tertiary sources, such as the more authoritative BDT much secondary and are widely used as the AI. The assertion that the Bandera not Ukrainian and Polish polttik already described as AK reductio ad absurdum. You just do not pay attention, that if human activities affect the nation as a whole, his nationality is not important. So Shevchenko 
I'm not so imbued with the spirit of Wikipedia, not to pay attention to what is written in the rules. So let not believe your judgment about "much greater credibility tertiary sources." Do not think that this part of the decision is a reference to the AK its validity, to the questions on the application of SB I did not get an explanation, so I think this sending irrelevant. The thesis about Shevchenko and Franco can be seen that this thesis has been disproved above (Abarmot :,  February  (UTC)), I will not repeat, except to say that the phrase "the Ukrainian poet" and "Ukrainian writer" appeal to values ) ) ). In contrast to the "Ukrainian politics" 
First, you are wrong, in relation to the "politician" just as you can apply items ,,. Second, check what is the consensus I supported? 
You are mistaken. The policy paper refers to the following definition: "The policy of (Greek Πολτκή -« the art of managing "state, community, intergovernmental relations) 
It discusses one of the leaders and ideologists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, after its collapse in , the leader of one of its branches (Bandera Movement). That's what I 
Now regarding the phrase: "The claim that Bandera was not Ukrainian and Polish polttik already described as AK reductio ad absurdum. You just do not pay attention, that if human activities affect the nation as a whole, his nationality does not matter. "We would like to know on what the AI ​​is based here is the statement:" If human activities affect the nation as a whole, his nationality is not important . »
It is very difficult to find the AI ​​that is obvious. I have already given an example 
Wit
WP: Consensus and does not require the support of all parties: "The presence of a consensus does not mean universal support for the selected solution. Rather, it means that everyone agrees "obey" the chosen solution. "Personally, I believe that the most accurate and neutral wording in the preamble would be" one of the leaders and ideologists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists "
I think "adopted above a group of participants' language was neneytralnoy, because it was originally a negative assessment. And calling the killings during the war on the part of any political organizations and parties to the conflict, as if it did not seem abnormal, not something unusual in the world. Your statement is more suitable if in the near future who will be objections, should be replaced. 
I think it is better to wait for at least some of the reaction of others. Today you have violated the consensus. 
Yes, one more. You have removed references to the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, replacing it with the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (Bandera movement) 
Let us then so write one of the leaders and ideologists of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, after its collapse in , the leader of one of its branches (Bandera Movement) 
Not "collapse" and "split". Otherwise, I agree. 
Logical. I am also in favor. 
Bandera and contemporary public opinion

Dear HOBOPOCC, your edit is legitimate only when a consensus on it. At the moment, the consensus is not only not achieved, but it did not end the discussion, as you can see, if you carefully re-read the superior discussion. In this case, you are making a significant edits even without participating actively in the discussion. Not only making edits in the comments you warned about the responsibility for the pullback, which is contrary to common sense. One may get the impression that you are promoting unfounded personal point of view. Let me tell you, if you would be interested, that section is called "Bandera and contemporary public opinion." The subject of this section does not imply denial of the public opinion in general and in particular to the selected or entered not edit refutes Novodvorskaya, and therefore does not fit into the theme section. Considering the above, under the regime of seeking consensus, let me undo your edit. 
It seems to be the same about the mere presence of these ads have decided that writing is worth. Another thing is just basically goes Novodvorskaya opposition to 
Mediatio

Please
Text on cooperation with the Germans
According to others, he agreed to the winter period -, in particular, coached the team "abvershtelle" in Krakow and was on the territory occupied by the Soviet Army, where he was subsequently forwarded to the territory of the Reich, Otto Skorzeny (Skorzeny O. Meine Kommandounternehmen: Krieg ohne Fronten. 

What is there to discuss. Source 
Skorzeny's memoirs on str.- on Bandera really says something interesting (although, unfortunately, through Google books can not fully read that). However, agree with my colleague wanderer, these memoirs (even if they were available as a whole) are only a primary source, you need to be in this part of the content was rated secondary AI. 
Oh brother

Current wording needed to be clarified. In , an article by Prof. Polish Adam Tsyraopublikovana in Acta Universitatis Wratislaviensis № . Studia nad Faszyzmem i Zbrodniami Hitlerowskimi. 
Reason for arrest

By late summer, OUN leaders have not exhibited the same activity in the protection of the Act of June , but they continued to convince the Nazi leadership that the liquidation of the Ukrainian government is not good for relations between Ukraine and Germany. Bandera's intransigence has caused more arrests. In September , in a concentration camp "Sachsenhausen" proved to Stepan Bandera, J. Stetsko, L. Rebet and other leaders of the OUN-B. Several papers have presented another reason for his arrest Bandera. The authors refer to the testimony of the deputy chief of the nd Division Abwehr Stolz, he gave the Soviet secret service in . Abverovsky officer claimed that in  Bandera received from Abwehr large sum of money to finance the underground and the organization of intelligence, but was trying to appropriate the money and transferred them to the Swiss bank, which was the reason for his arrest. 
I do not think that the view Firova that contradicts the huge number of AI, worth mentioning, especially without attribution. In addition, the credibility of the source is in serious doubt. 
This is not the opinion of Firova. Here's what he wrote 
Firova, in principle, AI, though not one of the leading Ukrainian historians. He's in his textbook refers to one of the Soviet publications, the author of which V.Zarechny, credibility is in serious doubt. Here is a link to an interrogation Stolz, who is in a network . It is clearly written:
Shortly after the termination due to Bandera was arrested for trying to form a Ukrainian government in Lviv. To rush due to Bandera was used the fact that the latter, in , received from the "Abwehr" a large sum of money to finance the underground created to organize subversive activities, trying to assign and moved to one of the Swiss banks, where they were taken by us and again returned to Bandera ...
From a fragment of the interrogation shows that there is no causal link between the transfer of money to the bank and there was no arrest and Stolz said that Bandera was arrested for "trying to form the Ukrainian government in Lviv." 
I agree 
Bu
A fragment from the testimony Stolze ("Bandera about money") is extremely doubtful. Try to find a (logical) answers to the questions:
. How can extract money from the Swiss bank account of Bandera? Given the fact that the Germans could not have the same way to withdraw money from Swiss bank accounts with repressed (the Nazis) Jews.
. Why return the money if he Bandera, so to speak, "caught stealing"?
. To "operations to seize money" Bandera is available to N-th sum of money, after the operation at the disposal of Bandera got the same N-th sum of money. What is the point of such an operation?
Nordri-midgar
Thes

UPA

Nothing is written about the crimes of UPA.
Of course. This is not an article about the UPA. 
I think this article would be nice to be pointed Bandera part in the activities of the UPA. At least in summary form.
Bandera did not participate in the activities of the UPA. He was not a soldier and politician. 
Wher
 The daughter Lesia

Sh
 Please refrain from epithets in the preamble

Please note that the EP is not accepted in the preamble to write, "great", "famous", "outstanding", "famous", "outstanding." Wikipedia has almost all the personalities fit into any of these epithets, but everywhere in the preamble but also written without adjectives: writer, artist, composer, politician, etc. Even on Pushkin in the preamble read simply: Russian poet, not a great Russian poet, even though we all know he's great. Collegiate neutral style demands to refrain from such epithets in the preamble. From the rest of the text, it is clear that Bandera 
"Outstanding" and "prominent" 
 Assessment of personality

I think that this one paragraph fully complies NTRP:
According to contemporaries, Bandera was a well-read man - he preferred the historical literature and memoirs of political figures, including foreign ones - German, Polish, and technical journals. In addition, he had the ability to speak eloquently and convincingly, but at the same time able to listen, without interrupting him. Distinguished by a good sense of humor, he is particularly fond of listening to someone telling funny stories. At Bandera was, according to those who knew him Kazanovsky Bogdan, a phenomenal memory, he had a wide range of interests, trying to lead an active life, and all that interested him, had a complete picture.  "He knew how to be a good friend and a nice boss" - recalled Nicholas Klimishin . Among the members of the OUN Bandera preferred active, capable and hard-working, paying attention to the level of secondary education rights - so before you appoint someone to a senior position in the organization, he was trying to take some time, especially if he was not personally acquainted with the candidates. OUN leader characterized by high organizational skills, intuitive, prudence  - "no doubt" Basil Cook called "the fact that the OUN under his [Bandera] leadership became a powerful political and military revolutionary force" . Jaroslav Stetsko recalled that Bandera was a staunch disinterested, "I can not imagine that it has, for example, money, and his friends had" .
Not all proposals agreed, whose opinion they reflect. So, up to the reviews about the memory of Bohdan Bandera Kazanovsky not be any sort of attribution, why the previous text, willy-nilly, is perceived as a kind of absolute truth. "According to his contemporaries" 
Refer to the last page. It often happens that the last reference is general in nature, because duplicate it several times in a single paragraph 
Then it must be said at the beginning of bear. Ie If the first three statements, as well as the statement of memory made Kazanovsky 
The book Perepichki sense of humor and communication skills, in fact, in this way, and are often. 
If a book Perepichki Bandera communication skills are presented as absolute truth - then it is an absolute truth for Perepichki. Of any personal qualities any person can make peremptory judgment on a single source, and on two or three - nekomilfo. Too subjective thing. If it is a man who valued polar - true tenfold. This calls for consensus on a large number of authors, at least, with neutral, and preferably with a negative mood (as little as a historian is positively evaluated by the figure of Joseph Goebbels, but his outstanding oratory emphasize all). While there is no consensus on the sources - you need to attribute. This, incidentally, is not difficult.
Of reading 
 gnat

Replace "i
 Life sentence for the glorification of Bandera

In this case, it is not about a phrase expressed in this debate, and the bill tabled by MPs from the ruling party. 
S
Of course, be accepted. For example, the Communists will vote in plenary. This proposal looks a natural extension of thought, "the residents of eastern Ukraine, as well as Poland and Russia regard him mostly negative, blaming fascism, terrorism, radical nationalism and collaborators" 
An
Well if you vote for all of the Communists, which is sure to happen, the law could be adopted even vote for it, not all "regionals". 
Coun
 votes may well determine the outcome of the vote. With regards to the nonsense 
Wel
How will 
Well
It is quite normal information on the subject of the article. If a project is discussed in the body zakonoadatelnoy power state level - it is really high importance. And the fact that the Communists are on the electoral lists to the parliament and there can form a substantial opinion means sufficient importance to their views of modern Ukrainian politics. In the U.S., because the CCP will not pass, and vote here.
Argument "Bandera still" generally invalid. What he did after monuments and marks - still no less. Stolypin out of some  general facts as his memory is perpetuated.
Anothe
MP, elected by majority districts in Sevastopol, a member of the ruling Party of Regions Vadym Kolesnichenko even made the initiative to introduce penalties for Bandera glorification of up to life imprisonment [ccylka] - too few, the article is not about Kolesnichenko, and about Bandera. Skoratit suggest:
People's deputy Vadim Kolesnichenko (Regions Party) proposed a penalty for glorification of Bandera up to life imprisonment [link].
And one more thing 
So far I can only see the arguments of the form that Kolesnichenko - "odious" (and you yourself are what?) Or "let them take a cake from the shelf." As they say, the level of reasoning is through the roof. Well, actually, now exactly clear what purpose the article about this character placed on the title. 
I
You really do not understand the difference between a member of the ruling party and a deputy from the opposition? Well, the difference is very simple: what makes a ruling party that is usually taken, and that the opposition 
Of course, it would be interesting to discuss with you the current political situation in Ukraine, and to find out, for example, what is the difference between MPs from the government and the opposition, or to present the implications of this bill. But all this is irrelevant to the discussion paper. I believe that at this point it's just a marginal policy statement, say so with a certain reputation, which was dressed in a written form. If this law will be submitted to a vote, then, can and should add this information to the article about Bandera. 
I'm afraid to upset you, but this "marginal" Kolesnichenko exactly reflect the views of the overwhelming majority of the population of South-East. Do you think that those who are in the Southeast, the Communist vote, views about Bandera somehow different from those "of Regions" Kolesnichenko elected there? So based on that this statement can not be marginalized, as if it is personal to you and may be unpleasant. All that is happening 
I do not understand the importance of this bill is determined by the fact that his proposed deputy of the ruling party or the fact that it displays the opinion of a certain part of the population. In the first case it has not been supported by the faction on the least premature to add any reference to this. In the second, so Mikhalchishin more accurately express the views of the most convinced of the electorate, "Freedom", but this is not a reason to add his remarks in the article. When the communists to this statement? My personal opinion on this is likely to leave with you, this is not a thematic forum, so give it I will not. It's not clear your desire to add Old is in the article, not in the article Kolisnichenko, where it would be out of place. - Vetrov :,  December  (UTC).
I personally have absolutely no objection to the article was something like: "In Galicia Bandera believe idol. Elected by majority districts in Lviv MP from VO "Svoboda" Farion predolzhila / said / did (there's a lot of material, you need to select the most characteristic). In the South East Bandera considered a criminal and a terrorist. Elected by majority districts in Sevastopol MP from the Party of Regions Kolesnichenko suggested punishing glorification of Bandera up to life imprisonment. "Absolutely do not understand why such information would be out of place in this article. My edits had not been canceled, but, if you wish, just add to it. 
In my opinion, the problem is what to politicians is one of the eternal themes. However, consistently reflecting the political statements in the article on the topic, a similar section soon would violate WP: WEIGHT. In order to highlight the flow of information from all the most important statements, suggestions and opinions of politicians, who do not have scientific value, it needs a good view of the AI ​​on the issue 
We do not write about politics, but about the fact that in different parts of the state of Ukraine to Bandera figure completely different attitude. In this part of the preamble are talking about it. And it's quite a different attitude can be illustrated with just one typical example. The author of the example is to be the type of person that is elected by the local population there (which means that it really is representative for the appropriate place). And the best way to do this right for majoritarian MPs Rada (the one hand, they are elected by the field, not all Ukraine, and the other 
I must admit that your opinion on the role and place of majoritarian MPs in the Ukrainian political life is very original. As well as the conclusion that the political discourse around Bandera in Ukraine should be limited only display items Farion and Kolesnichenko. I believe that this position is purely your vision of the problem, which in this respect is quite contrary to the principles of Wikipedia, such as WP: NPOV, WP: Orissa, VP AI VP: WEIGHT. 
Your cue indicates only that you know the names of different rules to Wikipedia, but none of them have not read. 
On a purely visceral level, I suspect that your statement is on the verge of the EP: EP. 
I
That's just about anything does not say. For example, the same management was supportive of other law deviation Kolesnichenko, see Law of Ukraine on the basis of state language policy. As a result, the law was adopted and entered into force. But that's not it. The fact that the opinion Kolesnichenko to use, not because it will become law (and may well be, then the probability of /), but because it illustrates the position of the South-East on the issue. And in this context, as it is me and been introduced, this opinion has value regardless of the acceptance or rejection of the law. 
Illustrates this is no more than the relation of Mr. Kolesnichenko. By the way, "collaboration" Bandera yet no one has managed to prove, so apply the Filkin this bill (probability of acceptance is much lower than %) directed against the "SS-Galicia", etc. still need to try and oh so ... Klangtao
Mr. Kolesnichenko in Parliament is not himself, and, at a minimum, the city of Sevastopol, which elected him, fully aware of what his views, and separate them. Your personal attitude to Bandera I honestly care little. And do not read this page for you to write it here. There are, you know, forums, and blogs. 
I
Identifications had political holivar inflate ... Here is how these arguments are the rules of wiki?
I believe that information should be in the article, regardless of the chances of the adoption of the bill, on the personality Kolesnichenko and the representativity of its opinion in Eastern Ukraine. Let's see step by step:
a) Vadim Kolesnichenko - quite prominent and well-known Ukrainian politician, member of the supreme legislative body of the country. This makes it a potentially significant opinions about whatever was discussed.
b) According to the EP: WEIGHT article should reflect the views are sufficiently covered sources. Only one request, "Bandera Kolesnichenko" in Yandex.News gives  references to articles in the media, directly related to this bill, or a reaction to it. I believe that this number is sufficient for a brief mention of the fact in the article. Since this method does not affect the search of Ukrainian sources, the actual lighting is probably much higher.
c) shove the opinion of each of the type "X said Bandera" the savior of the nation ", Y -" a genius ", Z -" the best son of the Ukrainian people "... ( different versions of praise); A Bandera called "bandit", B - "scum" C - "Nazi executioner" ... ( variants insults) "
I have to admit your argument is very convincing. However, the history of the bill shows only a part of the political struggle, which is currently around Bandera (as well as the history of the OUN-UPA). At the moment, the topic is not addressed in the article (except the story by assigning a subject title of Hero of Ukraine). And then there is the practical question 
Topic of political struggle around the name of Bandera, if adequately addressed in authoritative sources, according to Rule VI: OKZ, can act the subject of another article. While yes, most likely, this article will focus on the broader issue (at least, for the opponents of Bandera is inseparable from other nationalist leaders). Probably will do so when the volume of such information here is too great. So far, tolerant, and adding a single fact which, PMSM, it primechatlen for articles about the Bandera, has not changed. Why would infa irrelevant to existing threads? It is well suited for the section on the card (there is not only scientists), but even more so 
Th

Th
Hmm
Her
Actuall
IMHO, this issue within the framework of the EP should be treated differently. Kolisnichenko chatting on "Glavred" says degeroizatsii Bandera in the past tense (Although many issues still unresolved. Degeroizatsiya Shukhevych and Bandera, the establishment of the monument in Kiev Kozhedub adopted a resolution "On the declaration of  as the year of the veteran of the Great Patriotic War" ...) . Kolisnichenko directly on Bandera not expressed either in the bill or in other phrases on the chief editor. I agree with the previous remarks that the opinion as the opinion Kolisnichenko significant current policy, but the fact that journalists are then carried in the header ("Kolesnichenko offers to give life for the glorification of Bandera") 
If this is "the tag" journalists, write, of course, do not.
Dramatically different attitude to Bandera in different parts of modern Ukraine 
In the bill, of course, was not written specifically about Bandera: I.. Dopovniti Krimіnalny Code of Ukraine (Vіdomostі Verhovnoї sake (VVR), , N-, ,) {Іz zmіnami INTRODUCED zgіdno іz Laws N-III (-) Vid .., VVR, , N, Art ., N-III (-) Vid .., VVR, , N, Article  .... N-VI (-) Vid .., N-VI (-) . Vid ., N-VI (-) Vid //} by a new  statteyu such zmіstu "Stattya . Reabіlіtatsіya chi geroїzatsіya fashistskih kollaboratsіonіstіv. . Reabіlіtatsіya chi geroїzatsіya fashistskih kollaboratsіonіstіv in addition chislі th zdіysnyuvana Posadov especially karaєtsya pozbavlennyam Volya on lines Vid ten to p'yatnadtsyati rokіv abo dovіchnim pozbavlennyam Volya. Of course, I myself can not imagine the wording in the law (!) "Rehabilitation and glorification of Bandera punished so and so." Let's not bring the discussion to some already absurdity. Such laws do not exist. Of course, the draft Kolesnichenko it comes to rehabilitation and glorification of Nazi collaborators. And since everyone knows that Kolesnichenko this formulation has in mind, first of all, Bandera, all the journalists have written is all completely correct. By thinking Kolesnichenko adoption of this law really should lead to the fact that heroes of Bandera will be just at home in the kitchen, but those who would deal with the outside, is to be punished. With regards to the fact that people, elected by an overwhelming majority in the corresponding single-seat districts, do not represent the dominant opinion of the residents of this district 
Editors VP did not have to "thinking the" and interpret facts. Kolesnichenko directly of Bandera has spoken and the law on Bandera word. This is a fact. What Kolesnichenko implies 
Kolesnichenko called Bandera Nazi collaborator long before the chat to the chief editor, who was the other day. Here, for example, what he said in : Over the five years of Yushchenko country brainwashed. Such actions 
Debate is clearly not at the track. Of course, you can continue parsing Kolesnichenko position, but the article is not about him. Initially edit read that MP, elected by majority districts in Sevastopol, a member of the ruling Party of Regions Vadym Kolesnichenko even made the initiative to introduce penalties for glorification of Bandera up to life imprisonment. Yes, he has a well-known position on the subject, which he had expressed in the past, but the current resonance caused it in his remarks the chief editor, but they did not say it directly phrases like introduce penalties for glorification of Bandera up to life imprisonment, later ascribed to him . On this, initially dressing was basically flawed. The bill itself does not contain any mention of Bandera, and I believe that, at least until it became law, or at least not caused a response that would be in the media would be adequately lit, the mention of the bill, at least in this article is not justified. Also presented an alternative bill, which, following NTRP also worth to say, because the significance of his no less. But in both legislative initiatives Bandera not directly mentioned, and such a detailed description of the legal struggle over the history of Ukrainian nationalism in the biographical article, find it unnecessary. Personally, I think that the "fascist collaborators" Above all, it called Miller and Shukhevych, not to mention the SS Division "Galicia", but further discussion of the interpretation of this law without AI is hopeless. The importance of the position Kolesnichenko not think so weighty that an exception to the present article. Even in conjunction Farion. In any case, this will be the position, only  out of  deputies elected by the majority principle. Obviously, as WP: NPOV requires lighting not only polar positions as VP: WEIGHT suggests that not only the position of conditional Lviv and Sevastopol should be represented. Theoretically, this issue could be solved with a good source, which parse the historical memory of Ukrainians, and existing political positions on the topic, but these materials have been reported, in fact, such AI you think and engage the proplachennymi priori. Instead, you offer a typical EP, Orissa, based on their own understanding of the current political process in Ukraine. 
Read the rules to which you refer. No, I do not propose to Orissa. I suggest only display polar positions. Here we have a range of views on this issue, and polar positions (positions of significant Ukrainian politicians) are the position and Kolesnichenko Farion. Everything else is somehow in between. It is quite normal for writing encyclopedia articles. 
Read the rules VP: Orissa together: Original research includes unpublished facts, arguments, thoughts and ideas, any unpublished analysis or synthesis of published material that serves to advance a particular position. . The fact that the polar positions (positions of important politicians in Ukraine) are the position and Kolesnichenko Farion is a result of your personal analysis. Why Kolesnichenko and Farion? And do not say, Tabachnik and Mikhalchishin? Suppose Kolesnichenko authored unfortunate bill, among the leaders of Liberty is why you select it, and not, say Alexander Owl (PhD in History, Deputy Chairman of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom", responsible for ideology), or Tyahnybok? Why is your position Kolesnichenko more significant or more representative than the position Symonenko? After all, you did not give any information about support PR initiatives Sevastopol deputy, and it is possible it is extreme for this political power, which in general may not have broad support party members. I do not think that the position, such as Anna Herman will be identical in this respect with Kolesnichenko. In contrast to the position of the Communists, who have the program clearly stated that the Communist Party calls for ban on neo-Nazi organizations that emerged in Ukraine, to establish criminal penalties for any manifestation of fascism. Attempt to map the current situation in this matter, according to your position, in my view, be no more than "an unpublished analysis or synthesis of published (in our case, often unreleased) material, which is used to promote a particular position." But most importantly, all of this is the subject of this article is not, of course, if there is no material that specifically identifies the situation around Bandera from the general discourse about nationalism. 
It is remarkable that started to read the rules. And now, for a moment, imagine that I do not propose to write an article that their positions are polar. That would indeed be a slight violation of the EP: Orissa. I simply offer their lead 
 Error in date
glorification of Bandera. There is not a court decision in , and in 
 Bandera - Strangler cats

Why there is no information in the article that a child Bandera strangled cats. Type in Google "Bandera Strangler cats" make sure that the information is taking place and is very famous. If it's malevolence "advice", then you must also specify an "ill-wishers Bandera provides false information ... There is ...". Moreover, there is information about the self-destructive behaviors, "Bandera Contemporaries remembered that as a child he was preparing to fight for the freedom of Ukraine, unknown to adults torturing yourself chain and pricking needles, thus preparing to police torture." 
P. S. Moreover the book is referenced online article is listed in the literature (Gordasevich, Galina [ru]. Bandera: Man of mіf i / e-books online lib.oun-upa.org.ua. 
If this information is only in the forums 
Not too lazy to find the source - 
Volodymyr Bєlyaєv, zgaduyuchi of particle perіod zhyttja Stepan Bandera, write, scho one b'yuchis on the mortgage, the sight of a hand rovesnikіv odnієyu dushiv kotіv "for zmіtsnennya Volya". Tsі ostannі two words Bєlyaєva taken in the "feet" scho yak vіdomo, robitsya, if the words in vzhivayutsya іronіchnomu tonі subscriber to protilezhnomu znachennі. Scho Well Bєlyaєv perebuvav have Zahіdnіy Ukraїnі in Ti Rocky, if boule zhivimi slit nas bogato people yakі good sіm'yu Banderіv know, i htos іz them mіg rozpovіsti Taku іstorіyu Radyans'ka zhurnalіstovі (more yakbi rozkazav schos good, de vіn LUVs bi vzhe The next day "for antіsovєtskuyu agіtatsіyu").
and
Identity Yakscho epіzod s cats spravdі mіstse MAV, do not Vid vrodzhenoї skhilnostі to sadism and Vid hlop'yatskogo, Mauger, D nerozumnogo Bazhanov perevіriti myself chi ti zmozhesh pozbaviti zhyttja іnshu іstotu? Adzhe in revolyutsіynіy borotbі, Yaku vzhe residual paying for itself, Stepan Bandera, sweetness, bring pozbavlyati vorogіv i zradnikіv zhyttja abo th posilati on vіrnu druzіv death. Scho vіdchuvav at tsomu in ostannomu vipadku Stepan Bandera, dіznaєtesya, if prochitaєte yogo vistup on Lvіvskomu protsesі  p.
Google translator gives the following text. Style, and did not correct the error:
Vladimir Belyaev, recalling this period of life of Stepan Bandera, wrote that one of byuchis institution in front of their peers in one hand strangling cats "to strengthen the will." Those last two words in Belyaeva enclosed in "quotes", which, as you know, is done when the words are used in an ironic tone, or in the opposite sense. Well, Belyaev was in western Ukraine in the years when there were still many people alive who knew simyu Bandera, and one of them could tell a story Soviet journalist ...
Therefore, if the episode with cats did take place, it is not from an innate propensity for sadism, and from hlopyatskogo, perhaps, unwise desire to check yourself if you can take the life of another creature? Indeed, in the revolutionary struggle, which was finally chosen for himself Bandera probably will deprive the enemies and traitors, and life or send to their deaths friends. Felt that in the latter case, Stepan Bandera, find out when you read his speech at the Lviv process in 
Note that I have no reticence in this regard did not.
Take the opposite authors 
In this context it is also interesting information here (
To be honest, I have the impression that the story of the cat has the same source, ie, source of this information is just one author 
"... I have the impression ..." 
No AI, and on MARG, anyway, does not pass. Here Nicholas II almost industrial-scale fires back cats (as he wrote in his diaries), and even on this wiki nothing. If you are very concerned about the lives of cats, I suggest starting with hagiography, because there are all clear. 
Who "d

"I question the credibility of Belyaeva" 
N
Galina Gordasevich (-) poet and writer. Did not have the profile of history education (and scientific titles of course). Her book is not actually a VP AI, and is a primary source.
Besides, with Belyaev not personally met. So the story of the "Cats" is doubly doubtful. That is not the question of AI + of the primary source, "if the episode with cats actually took place."
Nordri-midgar
Doubt not Belyayev, while Gordasevich, which deserves credit for writing a good and interesting book, but not neutral in regard to the character of the book. 
Then the question arises 
Th
Tha
Again brought up the topic, I will continue. Information takes place, it is prevalent and cited. According to the rule of marginal theories "marginal theory should be seriously considered in detail and at least one major publication ... As the base value approach and retraction, sharply negative references." Publication elder in his secret history of Ukraine-Rus is. The book was, if I'm not mistaken  reissue it as criticism and praise. Kindly do not look for links.
The proposal is as close as possible, almost verbatim, the retelling of the text. Otherwise - the article should be seriously cleaned of all Gordasevich as non-authoritative. In particular, the knife would have to go to information "Bandera Contemporaries remembered that as a child he was preparing to fight for the freedom of Ukraine, unknown to adults torturing yourself chain and pricking needles, thus preparing to police torture." Since the non-authoritative, then the judgment should not be given. And if you build a circuit - self-torture, strangling cats, beat his pregnant wife, you get "was a sadist," not "prepared to fight."
However, given that in such a case, an article that is beautiful work, you can simply destroy the striking nenravyaschiesya definition (both the right and the left) on the basis of "unauthoritative source." And as mentioned above, "The problem is that currently there is no scientific monograph devoted entirely to the study of life S.Bandery." So that it is easier to add information and to forget (especially given its prevalence) than raise issues that it will "explode". Dixi. 
+ 
I have no objection, but note 
O.Buziny book (as an example of a major publication), we can not help. Because is a publicist, and not a scientific publication and is not AI. A rule VP MARG to assess the significance of the theory of marginal analysis is required of her in the AI:
Marginal theory only in the case may meet the criteria of significance, if her comment, refute or discuss secondary authoritative sources.
Nordri-midgar
So
Inaudible
 Nordri-midgard See references
Often RV - 
Gordasevich -  links - writer - not an authoritative source
Stetsko - the wife of first deputy Bandera - affiliated source -  links
And this is only a very cursory review. I fight with you is not going to. Neither the time nor the inclination. However, if you continue to follow the path of a circular discussion, you have to spend a few hours of time to write and submit an appropriate text for the page. Let them examine the mediators, right, left, communists, nationalists, etc. I would very much not like to do, but the conscience will be clear 
V
Yes ... Interesting turns. Add information to be non-consensual, as a source of information neavtoriteten. The entire content of the (not including memory, "the title of Hero," etc.) is created on non-authoritative and one-sided (not represented by historians and critics) sources. And that is an asterisk, which as it symbolizes the fact that this is the best content of the project.
One reads carefully found a number of stocks.
At its core, the situation is crazy. Well let discuss on other pages vikipediyny this paradox. At the weekend will be busy, but next week I can probably arrange accordingly.
I am sure that the debate will be long and interesting. As a result, there is a high risk that the article will be spoiled. And you can do it in two or three sentences. Well, from the classics
This judicial system is at each state anticipating the general political, economic and moral collapse.
I Hasek

As a writer, I will say this: Dear Ibidem, you can write anything, anywhere. Galina Gordasevich 
Thank you for your prompt response. I do not mind. I want to add the information in the book, which is present in the article. She was going to roll back, or more precisely not take because of the "non-authoritative". Dilemma 
I have not received an answer to your question 
Yo
This rule does not apply in this case 
Trolling 
Addiction Nicholas II to shoot crows during walks recorded in his diaries. No protest this information I did not cause 
Dea
It all depends on what information is available from a link on it. If that any of literary criticism 
In short, de facto have the following picture. Opinions were divided. However, the portion of participants who object to making this information, have an inner protest against the Supplement. Given the views of the author, as well as a very logical comment participant Novorossia
that is, you are an author of this article on «A to Z» confirm that Galina Gordasevich authoritative source, right? So if Nordri-midgard claims to have credibility, it can safely discharge the same check on the EP: KOI by standard procedures and permit the addition of a new article in the information from this source.
added information in the article. If necessary, I will be glad discussions with intermediaries, or on the request page to the administrators, attempting to remove the information from the internal protest. Really really do not want to submit this decent work to the appropriate page. Although comments on the article I see enough to make its contents appeared to extensive discussion. On one side of the discussion is good, but on the other 
Ha
Thank you for warning 
For those who are interested in direct reference Talk: Mediation / Ukraine / Requests # Bandera Stepan Andreevich. The case of the strangling cats 
Changes rolled back, please do not add up to the outcome of mediation. 
The issue was being examined by. From now on the ball in their field 
