Stephen A. Bandera ( * 1 January 1909 , Old Uhryniv now Kalush district, Ivano-Frankivsk region - † 15 October 1959 , Munich , Germany ) - an outstanding [1] Ukrainian politician , ideologue and theoretician of the Ukrainian nationalist movement of the twentieth century [2] , after the split of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, the chairperson of the OUN-B . [3]
Stepan Bandera and Yaroslav Stetsko were the authors of the proclamation of the Ukrainian State June 30, 1941. July 5, 1941 Bandera was placed under house arrest, and on September 15, 1941 in central Berlin prison. From early 1942 through August 1944 was in a concentration camp Sachsenhausen in the bunker "Tsellenbau". [4] [5] In September 1944 he was released and offered to participate in the anti-Soviet armed movement in the rear of the Red Army [6] [7] , but Bandera rejected the offer and refused to cooperate. [8] [9]
The Soviet government authorized the KGB to commit murder of Stepan Bandera in Munich , Germany . It made ​​a Soviet agent Bohdan Stashinsky October 15, 1959. [10] Family

Father - Andriy Bandera , a Greek Catholic priest, was at that time pastor in the village of Old Uhryniv . He came from the city stry .
Mother - Miroslav Bandera , came from the old priestly family (the daughter of the Greek Catholic priest from the village of Old Uhryniv).
Children - Natalia (1941-1985), Andrew (1945 - 9 July 1984), [11] , Leo (1947-2011) [12] [13]
Granddaughters - Bogdan, Elena [14] .
Grandson - Stepan Bandera, A. ( 1969 ), was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba ( Canada ), has a degree from Columbia University . Now working as a journalist, like his father, who gave English-language newspaper in Canada Ukrainian Echo [15] .
Preserved detailed autobiography Bandera [16] .
Early years (1909-1927)



House in Old Uhryniv where Bandera was born and spent the first ten years of life

Stepan Bandera in Plast (1923)
Stephen childhood spent in Old Uhryniv in the house of their fathers and grandfathers, growing up in an atmosphere of Ukrainian patriotism and living national, cultural, political and social interests. Fronts of the First World War, four times in the 1,914 - 1 915 and 1917 years traveled through his native village. In the summer of 1917 , residents of Galicia witnessed manifestations of national-revolutionary changes and revolutions in the army imperial Russia . In his autobiography Bandera also mentions a "great difference between Ukrainian and Moscow military units."
From childhood Bandera witnessed the rebirth and the structure of the Ukrainian state. Since November 1918  , the his father was ambassador to Parliament the Western Ukrainian People's Republic  - Ukrainian National Council of Stanislav and took an active part in the public life in Kaluschyni .
In September or October 1919 , Stepan Bandera joined the Ukrainian Gymnasium in Stryi , where he studied until 1927 year. In the third class ( 1922  g), he becomes member of the organization , in Stryi was in the 5th Plast huts behalf of Prince Yaroslav Osmomysl , and after graduating from high school - in the 2nd hut senior scouts "Red Detachment Kalina."
In spring 1922  , the from tuberculosis throat kills his mother.
Youth (1927-1934)



Stepan Bandera - scout hut "Red viburnum." Photo 1929 or 1930
In mid 1927 Bandera passed the final exams in high school and decided to enter the Ukrainian Commercial Academy in Podebrady ( Czechoslovakia ), but the Polish government refused to grant the young man passport, and he was forced to stay in the old year Uhryniv. In 1 927 - in 1928 's Bandera engaged cultural, educational and economic activities in his village (he worked in the reading of "Enlightenment", led the amateur theater group and choir, founded ruhankove Company "Lug" and belonged to the founding of cooperatives). This led organizational work boot through underground UVO in nearby villages.
In September 1928 , he moved to the city and then enrolled at the Agronomic Division High Polytechnic School , where he studied until 1933 year. Before diploma exam because of political activity he was arrested and imprisoned.
As a student actively participated in organized Ukrainian national life. He was a member of Ukrainian society Polytechnic students 'foundation' and a member of the Board Mug students husbandmen. Some worked in the bureau Society farmer engaged in the development of agriculture in the western Ukrainian lands. With the company "Enlightenment" went on Sundays and holidays in a trip to the nearby village of Lviv reports and to assist in organizing events. In the field of youth and sports organizations ruhankovyh was active primarily in Plast , as a member of the 2nd battalion of senior scouts "Red Detachment Kalina" in Ukrainian Students' Sports Club ( nglish ) and some time also in partnerships "Falcon-Father" and " Lug "in Lviv . Engaged jogging , swimming , leschatarstvom , wandering. In his spare time willingly played chess also sang in the choir and played the guitar and mandolin . Not smoked and did not use alcohol .


Commemorative plaque installed on a school building in Stryi , where he once studied Stepan Bandera


21 October 1928: General Council "Squad Red Cranberry " in the Academic home in Lviv. From left to right seated: Stephen Okhrymovych , Kalinovych Vladimir, Vladimir Erdenberher, Eugene Pelenskyi , Bogdan Chehut, Osip Hrytsak Roman Erdenberher, Michael Potochnyak. Standing: Osip Tyushka , Nn, Osip Karatnycky, Stepan Bandera, Julian Goshovsky, Cancer Yaroslav , Yaroslav Padoh , Roman Shchurovsky
In 1 932 - 1933  years served as deputy regional leader, and in mid- 1933  , the was appointed conductor boundary OUN and regional commandant UVO on ZUZ . In July 1932  , the Bandera with several other delegates from KE OUN on ZUZ participated in the Conference of the OUN in Prague (the so-called Vienna Conference , which was the most important collection of OUN after the founding of the Congress). In 1933  , the participated in conferences in Berlin and Gdansk .
Under the leadership of Bandera's OUN departs from ekspropriatsiynyh shares and begins a series of punitive actions against members of the Polish occupation authorities. During this period, OUN was performed three political killings that have received considerable publicity - school tutor Hadomskoho accused of Destroying the Polish and Ukrainian schools polonized employee GPU Alexis Maylova as a protest against the famine in Ukraine, killing Interior Minister Pyeratskoho in which the Polish government had bloody action "pacification" (appeasement) Ukrainian. Bandera has overall management attempts on Maylova [17] and Pyeratskoho [18] .
In conclusion. Out of Jail (1936-1939)

In June 1934 , he was imprisoned by the Polish police and was under investigation in the prisons of Lviv , Krakow and Warsaw by the end of 1935 year. From 18 November 1935 to 13 January 1936 was held in Warsaw process where Bandera, along with 11 other defendants, was tried for being part of the OUN and the murder of Minister of Internal Affairs of Poland Bronislaw Pyeratskoho . Bandera was sentenced to death, which is commuted to life imprisonment. Once he was in prison "Święty Krzyż» ("Holy Cross") circle Kielce in Wronki circle Poznan in Brest until September 1939 year. September 13 , when the position of the Polish troops on the piece became critical, the prison administration and guards hastily evacuated and the prisoners went free.
In the first half of January 1940 , the Bandera arrived in Italy . He was in Rome , where the village OUN led the prof. E. Onatsko . There he met his brother Alexander , who lived in Rome from one thousand nine hundred and thirty-three - one thousand nine hundred and thirty-four , studied there and did a doctorate in political and economic sciences, married and worked in our local villages.
The tragic fate of the family of Stepan Bandera


Church in Krakow, where Bandera married


St. Norbert's Church in Krakow, where Bandera married
Since the beginning of the Nazi occupation of Ukraine forces one of the resistance groups led by younger brother Stephen - Bogdan . He died in 1942 or 1943 year.
5 July 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. For him to Berlin went Yaroslav wife of three months daughter Natasha to be close to her husband. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in a concentration camp Sachsenhausen , where he remained until 1944 year. Brothers Alexander (Doctor of economics) and Basil (philosophy graduate of the University of Lviv ) in 1942 was killed by Polish guards- capo in the concentration camp Auschwitz [19] [20] .
Andrei Mikhailovich Bandera  - father Stephen, was killed by the Soviets. Sisters Oksana and Martha-Mary in 1941  , the was arrested and exiled to Siberia ( Krasnoyarsk ). The Soviet leaders for decades did not allow them to return to Ukraine - Martha Maria Bandera died in exile in 1982 year and summer Oksana Bandera returned to their homeland only in 1989 , after almost 50 years of life in Siberia . She died on 24 December 2008 year.
Another sister - Vladimir  - was in Soviet labor camps from 1946 to 1956 year.
The Second World War

After killing Soviet agent Sudoplatov Eugene Konovalca Wires OUN led by Colonel Andrew Melnyk , associate Konovalca since fighting UPR and work together in the ranks UVO . In August 1939 , in Rome, the second great collection of Ukrainian Nationalists, which was officially approved Andrew Miller as chairman PUN . However, a group of young nationalists led by Stepan Bandera, who after the occupation of Poland by Germany came back from prison and was separated from the Organization began to seek from PUN and its leader Colonel Andrew Miller changes expectant management OUN , and elimination of PUN several of its members. The conflict came into sharp forms and led to the split. In February 1940 year formed a "revolutionary leadership of the OUN" led Bandera.
A year Revolutionary Wires convened II Large Collection of OUN , which unanimously elected chairman by Stepan Bandera. Under his leadership of the OUN-B becomes vigorous revolutionary organization. It builds organizational network in their native land, creates derivative of the OUN-B from the membership that was abroad, and in consultation with supportive Ukrainian cause German military circles creates the Ukrainian Legion and organized liberation struggle together with other captive Moscow nations. This part is known as OUN OUN-revolutionaries (OUN-p) (later - OUN-SD , popular name Banderas ).
Before the explosion of German-Soviet war Bandera initiates creation in Krakow Ukrainian National Committee for the consolidation of Ukrainian political forces in the struggle for statehood.
Leadership Decision of 30 June 1941  , the proclaimed the restoration of the Ukrainian State in Lviv . The event was an attempt to "put before the fact" leadership of the Third Reich and force to recognize Ukrainian struggle. However, Hitler ordered his police to immediately liquidate this "conspiracy Ukrainian independence supporters." The Germans arrested Bandera a few days after the proclamation of the Ukrainian state renewal  - 5 July 1941 . German prisoner was Stepan Bandera to December 1944 then fired him and several other leading members of the OUN from prison, trying to attach to his forces OUN-B and UPA as an ally against Moscow . Now German proposal Bandera rejected [21] .
At the National broader meeting of the Organization of the OUN-B of Ukrainian lands in February 1945  was, which was interpreted as part of a large gathering of OUN-B, elected a new Bureau of wires in the following list: Bandera, Shukhevych , Stetsko . This choice proved Conference zch OUN-B in 1947  , the and then Stepan Bandera was again head of the Organization throughout the OUN-B . As leader of the OUN-B, Bandera in the postwar period decides to continue the armed struggle against Moscow . He actively organizes edge communications and combat groups OUN-B, which keeps contact with the land continuously until his death.
In 1948 , in Foreign Parts OUN-B formed by the opposition, which Stepan Bandera opposed to the ideological plane, organizational and political. He strongly opposes the idea of democratization of the OUN and the rejection of authoritarian, totalitarian methods in its operations. [22]
In December 1950  , the Bandera resigned as chairperson of the zch OUN-B . Aug. 22 1952  , the He also went on as President of the Organization throughout the OUN-B. But his decision was not, however, taken by any competent authority OUN-B and Bandera remained continue Explorer OUN-B until his death in 1959 year.
1955  he was held 5th Conference zch OUN-B , which again has chosen head of the Organization zch OUN-B Stepan Bandera and then again intensively conducted the organization.
Recent years

Stressful for the family were postwar years since Soviet secret police hunted not only by the leader of the national movement, but also for his children. For example, in 1948 the family six times change the place Finally, the need to give her daughter a good education, family in 1954 he finally moved to the German city of Munich ( Bavaria ). Parents tried to hide from Natasha importance of person her father not to expose the girl to danger. Memories Natasha, daughter of Stepan Bandera, about that time [23] .
'	With thirteen years, I began to read Ukrainian newspapers and read many of Stepan Bandera. With the passage of time, based on various observations of constant change names as through the fact that around my father always had a lot of people, I have some guesses. When one friend once let slip that I was certain that Bandera - this is my father.	 '
It was in Munich Bandera spent the last years of his life living under the passport in the name Stefan Popiel . According to one version, he remained a passport from Lviv chess Stephen Popel , who in 1944  was left the Ukraine, in the beginning. 1950 he lived in Paris , and in 1956 moved to the United States [24] .
Murder



Tomb of Stepan Bandera in Munich
15 October 1959 , in the entrance of the house on the street Kraytmayr, 7 ( Kreittmayrstraße ), in Munich at 13:05 found still alive ensanguine Stepan Bandera. Medical examination revealed that the cause of death was poison. Bogdan Stashinsky Special pistol shot in the face Stepan Bandera jet solution of potassium cyanide. Two years later, 17 November 1961  , the, German courts have declared that the murderer Stepan Bandera is Bogdan Stashinsky of order Shelepina and Khrushchev .
After a detailed investigation against killer was so-called. "process Stashinsky" from 8 to 15 October 1962  , the Worthy proclaimed October 19  - killer sentenced to 8 years of hard prison.
The German Supreme Court in Karlsruhe confirmed that the main accused in the murder of Bandera is the Soviet government in Moscow . In an interview with the Russian newspaper "Komsomolskaya Pravda" published in its issue of December 6 2005 , the former head of the KGB of the USSR Vladimir Kryuchkov acknowledged that "murder Stephen Banderы áûëî one of ïîñëåäíèé ustranenyy KGB nasylstvennыmy methods nezhelatelnыh elements " [25] .
20 October 1959 Bandera was buried in Munich cemeteries Valdfridhof [26] at 43 pitch.


Advertisements in the newspaper "freedom" of the death of Bandera
Remembrance



Postage stamp for the 100th anniversary of the birth
The name "Bandera" was one of the symbols of the Ukrainian national liberation movement of the XX century . After independence, many youth, political and social organizations named in his honor. One of the city is the informal name "Bandershtadtu" , meaning "city of Bandera." In Volyn hold music festival "Bandershtat" .
In 1995 , director Oles Yanchuk directed the film "Assassination - Autumn Murder in Munich" post-war fate of Stepan Bandera and units UPA .
The Netherlands writer Rohirom van Aarde was written novel "Assassination" devoted political murder of Stepan Bandera.
The project "Great Ukrainian" leader of the Ukrainian liberation movement took third place (261,247 votes (16.12%) of the total number of people who took part in the vote [27] ). The project ended in scandal: Bandera, which represented Vakhtang Kipiani , was among the leaders of the vote, but came third, while supporting future winner of Yaroslav the Wise , who represented Dmitry Tabachnik , according to some, the last day of the vote with 80 rooms come more than 100 sms minute. [28] Chief editor of Vakhtang Kipiani said that the results were falsified, [29] however Producer Yegor Benkendorf disputed this [30] . Lead Project Anna Gomonay expressed confidence that should carry out an official investigation in this case: [31]
'	As ... on 14 May, when the air in a documentary on Prince Yaroslav the Wise, he really was in 4th place. So, obviously, the overwhelming number of votes, which not only allowed the Duke win, but do it with a huge margin of other contenders - Yaroslav the Wise got the last 2 days before the ether.	 '
1 January 2009 on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Stepan Bandera, Ukrainian State Enterprise of Posts "Ukrposhta" issued a commemorative envelope [32] , as well as a postage stamp [33] , authored by Vasily Vasilenko. On the front of the envelope placed image Stepan Bandera, under which logo of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (crowned national flag of Ukraine ). Below the image is the inscription "100 years of the birth" technique personal signature Bandera [34] .
2009 year in Ternopil proclaimed the "Year of Stepan Bandera."
Monuments


Monument to Stepan Bandera in Ternopil .


Monument to Stepan Bandera in Bershad .
More: Monument to Stepan Bandera
Monument to Stepan Bandera is in Lviv (see Monument to Stepan Bandera in Lviv ) , Ternopil (see Monument to Stepan Bandera in villages Kozivka , willow [35] , Hrabivka and Medium Bereziv . In Turk in 2009 laid the pedestal for the monument to Stepan Bandera.
Museums
In the world there are 6 museums Bandera:
Museum of Stepan Bandera ( Dublyany )
Estate-museum of Stepan Bandera ( Will-Zaderevatska )
Historical and Memorial Museum of Stepan Bandera ( Old Uhryniv , September 1993 [2] )
Museum of Stepan Bandera ( Yagilnytsya )
Museum of the liberation struggle named after Stepan Bandera ( London )
Museum-estate family Bandera ( Stry )
Streets
In honor of Stepan Bandera named avenue in Ternopil and streets in other localities.
At the beginning of its independence in the capital of Chechnya, Grozny was Stepan Bandera Street . After coming to power of Ramzan Kadyrov, the street was renamed.
Public Opinion
In a survey of sociological group rating, which sounded director of Alex Antypovych, for the abolition decree third president of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko conferring the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine in March 2010 were 53% in April 2011, the that number dropped to 51%. Meanwhile, the number of opponents of the idea of canceling the document - from 28 to 32%. [36]
Opinions on the personality of Stepan Bandera extremely polar. At present he is popular mainly among residents of Western Ukraine  - after the collapse of the Soviet Union for many western Ukrainian his name became a symbol of the struggle for the independence of Ukraine. In turn, the residents of eastern Ukraine and Poland , and Russia's attitude towards him largely negative, blaming fascism , terrorism , radical nationalism and collaborators [37] [38] . The concept of "Bandera", derived from his name gradually became universal and applicable to all Ukrainian nationalists, regardless of their attitude towards Bandera [39] [40] [41] .
Title

Assignment title Hero of Ukraine
20 January 2010 year "for the formidable spirit in the pursuit of the national idea, found heroism and sacrifice in the struggle for an independent Ukrainian state" , the President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko awarded [42] Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine with the awarding of the Order of (posthumously). 22 January at the celebration of the Day of Unification at the National Opera head of state noted that "millions of Ukrainian expect this many years." Present at the ceremony welcomed handing standing. By winning in Bandera's grandson, who was also called Stepan Bandera.


Banner to match "Carpathians"  - "Shakhtar" in Lviv with a portrait figure and the inscription "Bandera - our hero" (April 2010)
This decision caused a mixed reaction both in Ukraine and abroad:
Reaction in Ukraine
MP from the Party of Regions Kolesnychenko said that this assignment " grossly contrary to international and domestic law and leads to a split of the country " [43] [44]
According to a representative of the party BYT MP Andriy Senchenko , " its decision Yushchenko complicates the situation in the country. He does this in order to enhance instability " [45] , but Andriy Shkil said the President's decision "positive, absolutely positive" [46]
Soviet intelligence [47] , Hero of Ukraine Yevhen Bereznyak so reacted to the president's decree:
'	This is a slap in the face to all veterans of WWII . Greater nasty he could not do it! I, when I heard it, I decided to give up the title of Hero of Ukraine. But my fellow veterans said do not you dare do that, you deserve this title, and Yushchenko him the prysvoyuvav [45]	 '
Associate Professor of History Department, Kyiv National Taras Shevchenko University John Patryliak convinced that Stepan Bandera, one of the few figures in Ukrainian history of the 20th century, which deserves the highest honor at the state level:
'	The only strategy and its basic position was focused on the struggle for obtaining Ukrainian independence. Even when it was destroyed underground Ukraine, Bandera still remained a significant figure and face of the Ukrainian state, as a result of its eliminated ... Bandera fulfilled the mission of the national flag and the flag is a symbol now. For such iconic figures as Bandera logical to make Glory Park national heroes with monuments and memorials [48]	 '
International reaction
 European Parliament with the filing of the Polish representatives [49] in parliament officially expressed regret about the decision to award Stepan Bandera (resolution RC-B7-0116/2010 from 17/02/2010). MPs urged the new president Viktor Yanukovych reconsider its decision of his predecessor [49] [50] .
President of the European Parliament Delegation for Cooperation with Ukraine Paweł Kowal ( Poland ) said that he considered the situation around the highest award Bandera Ukrainian state honors exclusively internal affair Ukrainian. [51]
Chairman "Slovak Union fighters from fascism" Pavol Sechkar said that "by Viktor Yushchenko - a provocation" and that during the Second World War raged Banderas and Czechoslovak territory and conferring the award was made ​​without exploring the many historical facts and doubt cause "so-called merit" Bandera. [52]
Chairman "Slovak association of former prisoners of concentration camps" Otto Wagner said: "Bandera collaborated with the Nazis. Therefore, the neo-fascist may perceive awarding him the title of Hero of Ukraine as a next step to rehabilitation of fascism " . [52]
President of the Czech Confederation of Political Prisoners Hope Kavalirova expressed support for the decision of the President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera. 's good that he (President) went to this step, many Czech politicians have something to learn - said N.Kavalirova. [ 53] [54]
Deputy Chairman of the Federation Council of Russia Yuri Vorobyov called Yushchenko's actions on assigning Bandera Hero shameful, "It's just a shame. If this learned our grandfathers and fathers, just to spread indignation in their graves. " [55]
In a statement the Russian Foreign Ministry said that the award "event so odious that it could not cause unambiguously negative reaction especially in Ukraine. Already known position on this issue a number of Ukrainian politicians who believe that the solution of this kind do not contribute to the consolidation of Ukrainian public opinion ". [56]
Former Polish Prime Minister Leszek Miller said that " The political elite of Poland, is sensitive to the behavior of the German authorities about Erika Steinbach, surprisingly indifferent reacted to a remarkable gesture union president Viktor Yushchenko with terrorist and criminal. Leading Polish politicians criticize Yushchenko because he has deserved image in Poland anti-Russian policy. " [57]
Marshal of the Polish Senate Bogdan Borusewicz said at a meeting with the head of the Federation Council of Russia Sergei Mironov, the attribution Bandera Hero of Ukraine internal affair of the Ukrainian leadership [58]
Minister Office of the President of Poland Mariusz Handzlik said, " We were surprised accepted the decision of the President of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera. We counted a great delicacy by our Ukrainian partners ... Poland in talks with Ukrainian partners have repeatedly expressed their objections in respect of Honor Stepan Bandera and UPA members. Poles For Stepan Bandera - an extremely controversial figure ". [59]
 "Simon Wiesenthal Center" sent a letter to the Embassy of Ukraine in the United States, which expressed "deep right to those honors, which was awarded Bandera." The document states that Bandera was a "textbook Nazis and blame the murder of thousands of Jews and people of other nationalities during the Second World War" [60] [61] .
Russian anticommunist Christian community in connection with the title of Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera filed a complaint to the Embassy of Ukraine to Russia in support of the rank and sent Litia for soul Chiefs Ukrainian liberation movement Stepan Bandera, Roman Shukhevych , Eugene Konovalca and all leaders and soldiers of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army ( UPA ) and the 14th Grenadier Division of Waffen-SS «Galicia '(1st Ukrainian). Final prayer read Ukrainian. [62] [63]
Court decision on canceling the Decree of President of Ukraine
2 April 2010 , the Donetsk District Administrative Court declared illegal and quashed the decree of President Viktor Yushchenko on awarding Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine. The Court found unlawful and thus subject to cancellation of the decree as a title can be awarded only to citizens of the state; acquiring the citizenship of Ukraine is possible with the 1991 year, the person who died this year can not be citizens of Ukraine, Bandera Stepan A. died in 1959 , the because he is not a citizen of Ukraine , because it can not be awarded the title of Hero of Ukraine [64] [65] .
12 April 2010 , the President appealed to the Resolution Donetsk Administrative Court on April 2, 2010, citing her that "the decision Donetsk District Administrative Court in the case does not meet the requirements of current legislation of Ukraine , and therefore should be abolished " [66] .
There were also filed appeals against others.
23 June 2010 , the Donetsk Administrative Court decided appeals leave without satisfaction, decision Donetsk Administrative Court left intact. A court of appeals may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine within one month, [67] which was not done.
12 January 2011 , the press service of the Administration of the President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych said that [68] :
'	Atlas Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal on June 23, 2010 ruling Donetsk Administrative Court on April 2, 2010 upheld. decision became final. Decree abolished. [69]	 '
13 January 2011 , the lawyer who represents the interests of Ukraine Stepan Bandera (junior) - Roman Orekhov, said that there is no legal basis to assert that historical figures Stepan Bandera and Roman Shukhevych finally denied the title of Hero of Ukraine, President Yushchenko's decree assigned [70] . The lawyer also suggested that the message of the presidential administration on January 12 , which he described as a "provocation" was political in nature and intended to interested circles in Russia and Russian reporters [71] , who came to Ukraine to cover the course of the proceedings [72] [73 ] .
These decisions have caused debate in society, including the legal consequences of these judgments.
2 August 2011 , the Higher Administrative Court of Ukraine upheld the decision Donetsk Administrative Court on April 2nd 2010 and decide Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal on June 23, 2010, which declared illegal decree third president of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko on January 20, 2010 on assignment Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine.
A panel of judges did not satisfy appeals Yushchenko, Yuriy Shukhevych (son UPA commander Roman Shukhevych), Bandera (Bandera's grandson), Svoboda and a number of citizens of Ukraine to the solutions [74] .
Other honorary titles
In response to the deprivation of Hero of Ukraine title number of cities in western Ukraine to Stepan Bandera conferred an honorary citizen: