You can read about the acts of the brigades headed by Stefan Bandera in the following article written by an eye-witness, a survivor: 
The relevant paragraph from this site is the following:
Stefan Bandera – Ukrainian general in the Soviet army who switched to the German side along with his entire army. His troops fought against the Russians on the front and were very active in the murder of Jews in the Ukraine and in Russia. Bandera and his men went underground prior to the German downfall. Well armed by the Germans, he continued his fight against the Russians and his killing of Jews and Poles for several years after the Allied victory. I could ascertain during my  trip to the Ukraine that today Bandera is considered a national hero. All the towns have streets and squares named after him and there are many monuments dedicated to him. He is almost at the same level as two other Ukrainian heroes with Jewish blood on their hands: Bohdan Chmielnicki and Petlura.
Comment by Pan Gerwazy:
No, "Soviet general" cannot possibly be correct. This is probably caused by a confusion with someone else. Vlasov, perhaps?
Bandera was on the German side when they invaded, but was soon arrested for being too independent. He even opposed the formation of SS-Galizien.
But a lot of atrocities were committed by his supporters in his name and Bandera never recanted them or asked for forgiveness.
It is also true that someone in whose name so many innocent people (Jews, Poles and yes, relatives of communist partisans) were killed, should not be so popular in Ukraine.
Well, it is a difficult and controversial question and one has to be respectful of the thousands of innocent victims of the Ukrainian radical nationalism. But there is another problem to bear in mind. Bandera was one of several millions Ukrainian people who witnessed the turmoil of history with its violence and oppression. His fight for liberation of his people against the Polish, Soviet and 
T
Imprisonment in Sachsenhausen concentration camp

I think that this part has to be clarified, since Bandera has been held at Zellenbau, special section of Sachsenhausen for important polical prisoners. The information is available at multiple sources, including Polish version of the article. At Google Books: Poland's Holocaust, by Tadeusz M. Piotrowski. 
pic


Wh
Hello
Stryi

Wh
Image with highlighted sections

Hello,
Ther
Soviet WP:weasel at work.

I just removed this cause it where strong accusations whit bad references:
Bandera actively collaborate with fascistі, there are many facts of this collaboration in archives of the Nuremberg tribunal [verification needed]. His main ideas of nationalism about destruction of jews, poles and russians are very similar with Hitler's ideas.[verification needed]
^ " The Nuremberg War Crimes Trials, #. , pages —"

A very poor attempt at putting in false information into a wiki article. Bandera was not even mentioned in the Nuremburg War trials. If he were 
Afte
After the Red Army evacuated Buczacz at the end of June, and before the arrival of German forces on  July , local Ukrainian vigilantes murdered certain Jewish individuals who had been active in the Soviet administration. Ukrainian policemen attacked Jews in what was in part a militia riot, in part a pogrom, looting property and coercing some Jews into forced labour in the town. The violence in Buczacz was directed by a Ukrainian schoolteacher, doubtless inspired by the militant ethno-nationalism and anti-Semitism of the German-backed Organization for Ukrainian Nationalists of Stepan Bandera. According to their aggressive and angry nationalist ideology, Jews were castigated as protagonists of Communism and as collaborators of Poland and Soviet Russia in the oppression suffered by Ukrainians. Yet, the Ukrainian progrom was merely a prelude to the catastrophe that was soon to unfold. When the German forces arrived, they were followed in their wake by the dreaded "Special Action Groups," the Einsatzgruppen extermination squads.

Every attack involving Jews is usually labeled a pogrom. It is an overused term. Its nice to blame the actions of a schoolteacher on an organization but where is the proof. Words such as doubtless actuially are quite doubtful in this case. The Bandera factions has not been proven to be antisemitic. In fact many of the leaders were either Jewish or married to Jews i.e [[Richard Yary]]. The Jews mentioned were not attacked because they were Jewish but because of their actions during he Sovie occupation of Western Ukraine. Regarding Ukrainain Fascists, 
Wel
Gehlen became chief of the Third Reich's Foreign Armies East (FHO), on April , . He was thus responsible for Germany's military intelligence operations throughout Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. His FHO was connected in this role with a number of secret fascist organizations in the countries to Germany's east. These included Stepan Bandera's "B Faction" of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN/B), Romania's Iron Guard, the Ustachis of Yugoslavia, the Vanagis of Latvia and, after the summer of , "Vlassov's Army," the band of defectors from Soviet Communism marching behind former Red hero General Andrey Vlassov. Later on in the war, Gehlen placed one of his top men in control of Foreign Armies West, which broadened his power; and then after Admiral Wilhelm Canaris was purged and his Abwehr intelligence service cannibalized by the SS, Gehlen became in effect Nazi Germany's over-all top intelligence chief.

Wel
Dea
This "agitation leaflet" calling on "killing Jews, Poles and Russian" - where is it? I would really like to see a copy of it, because I do not believe that it exists. If it did, it would be widely available and quite sensational.
Regarding the declaration of Independence: numerous books have been published which have shed light on these events. In particular, I recall Kost' Pankivsky's books "Vid derzhavy do komitetu" and a number of others. Pankivsky was one of the non-party members elected to a position in that attempt to establish a Ukrainian government. He was very critical of Stetsko and Bandera, and published all the documents of that day, pointing out attempts to doctor them after the fact by the Bandera faction. He was very critical of this. I remember Pankivsky in his book pointing out that in the original it was written that the Ukrainian state was established, not re-established, as they often publish even today 
O
I wouldn't think that you would, but a link to any publication or site that has printed it would be a nice start. Regarding active collaboration with the Nazis - I am shocked by how the Soviets and the Nazi's collaborated to divide up Poland in the Secret Molotov-Ribbentrop pact. I am shocked that the Nazis and the Soviets marched together and celebrated the destruction of Poland in Brest - photos and documents which continue to be unearthed, primarily by Baltic and Polish scholars. these materials are based on documents. Your statements are based on hearsay. Regarding the Bandera faction, (of which I am not a member b.t.w.) I am disappointed that they have doctored documents, rather than explain their actions and within the historic context of the times, but I am not surprised either. One needs to remember that the Nazis at that time did not have a negative track record, and in Western Ukraine, which up till WWI was part of the German speaking regime of Austria-Hungary, the Austrians treated the Ukrainians much better than the Poles, and then you have the brutal Soviet regime with its famines, purges, censorship and terror. In the brief  years the Soviets were in Western Ukraine they left a very poor opinion of themselves.
Ukrainians only had one SS division (Galizien) and  brigades (a parachute, an antitank group and a cavalry). The Russians had over  divisions and  brigades that fought for the Nazis against their own people including  full SS divisions (the two main ones being the th and th), and even an Airgroup.
In  , soldiers of Ukrainian ethnicity who were captured as soldiers in the Red Army were released by the Germans from POW camps. Were they all collaborators? A recent book bout these Russian division has been published see here
Banduris
Thi
Bandera's collaboration with Nazi

Colonel Stolze from Abwehr II gave testimony at th December, . His testimony was given to Nuremberg Tribunal as Exhibit USSR- with the request that it be accepted as evidenceas. It consist information which confirm that Stepan Bandera was the Abwehr's agent, also that Bandera and OUN actively collaborate with Nazi. "In carrying out the above-mentioned instructions of Keitel and Jodl, I contacted Ukrainian Nationalists who were in the German Intelligence Service and other members of the Nationalist Fascist groups, whom I enlisted in to carry out the tasks as set out above. In particular, instructions were given by me personally to the leaders of the Ukrainian Nationalists, the German Agents Myelnik (code name 'Consul I') and Bandara to organise, immediately upon Germany's attack on the Soviet Union, and to provoke demonstrations in the Ukraine, in order to disrupt the immediate rear of the Soviet Armies, and also to convince international public opinion of alleged disintegration of the Soviet rear." 

Hello
"Views towards other ethnicities" section

Hello,

Feel free to expand – a really nice and detailed scholar sources available
ОУН   році: документи: В -х ч Ін-т історії України НАН України К.  ISBN ---
І.К
Berkhoff, K.C. and M. Carynnyk 'The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and Its Attitude toward Germans and Jews: Iaroslav Stets’ko’s  Zhyttiepys' in: Harvard Ukrainian Studies, vol.  (), nr. /, pp. —
Нарис
Indeed intresting reading 
Well
So, you've asked about massive expansion isn't? While list of sources and it's highest WP:RS grade (HURI of Harvard, Ukraine's National Academy of Science, Shevchenko Univ.) is self evident -
Hello
You wellcome. List of WP:RS provided for expansion 
Clarification needed

At header
was a Ukrainian politician and one of the leaders of Ukrainian national movement in (Galicia) Western Ukraine, who headed the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN).
he was a leader of OUN/UVO branch in Galicia (Poland) until imprisonment in . Majority of the Ukrainian political parties as also Andriy Sheptytsky condemned activities of that minor terrorist organization. Even OUN head Konovalets issued an order to halt terrorist activities in Poland. He was imprisoned while UVO/OUN almost disappeared till end of . Released by Germans September   it acted at General Government (Nazi occupied Poland) till June  – while the leader of OUN from August  was Andriy Melnyk. He was unknown at pre  territory of Ukraine until soviet propaganda effort from the end of s.
So I guess how he can be a Ukrainian politician outside of Ukraine, and his OUN described by him not as political party???
Issu
(dat
Blog, opinions section of Kyiv post given as refs for
The Soviet Union discredited Bandera and other Ukrainian nationalist partisans of World War II
while in Time(magazine) (also given as ref -while no such wording can be found) given 
Missing in timeline

I
Good catch – – so per Institute of History - National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine
ОУН   році: документи: В -х ч Ін-т історії України НАН України К.  ISBN ---
Bandera together with his deputy Yaroslav Stetsko removed from General Government to Berlin under pretext of assassination threat – unsuccessful attempt were made on Stetsko  July  at Lemberg. By end of July OUN-B leadership issued an order to actively “remove” Melniks’s OUN leaders and activists.  August  highest OUN officials – M.Stsyborskyy and O.Senyk were assassinated at controlled by OUN-B Zhytomyr – more then six hundred of others OUN activists received a death threat from OUN-B, dozens already was killed. In respond Melnyk’s OUN issued own order to “exterminate Yaro-Bandera diversion”.  September  Stetsko and Bandera were moved from private villa’s were they live from July  to secure central Berlin prison. In December  they wrote a memorandum to Alfred Rosenberg in which declared “German and Ukrainian interests in East Europe are the same” and promised OUN-B service under German authorities rules, declared rejection of the OUN-B exclusivity etc.
*Оранізація українських націоналісті і Українська постанська армія. Інститут історії НАН України. р
 – OUN-B order –“any activities against Germans – it is a help to Stalin”
 – Lebid attempts to postpone armed activities and Stepnyak attempts to act against Germans was overruled by Shukhevych OUN-B main targets – Poles and soviet partisans.
Нариси з історії політичноо терору і тероризму  Україні XIX—XX ст. Інститут історії України НАН України,  p.
 March  OUN-B representative Father Grynyoch (chaplain of the Nachtigal) met at Lemberg with Gestapo and SD, representatives and discuss terms of cooperation with Nazi against Soviets
Summer  – OUN-B/UIA notable activities against rear of -th Ukrainian Front
Early September  – Bandera freed by SD, (which absorbed Abwehr in ) from Zellenbau.
After the front had passed, by the end of  the Germans supplied OUN/UPA by air with arms and equipment. Some German personnel trained to conduct terrorist and intelligence activities behind Soviet lines, as well as some OUN-B leaders, were also transported by air till
early .
*Оранізація українських націоналісті і Українська постанська армія. Інститут історії НАН України. р p.-
Soon after Germany fall Bandera and OUN-B “abroad” (ЗЧ ОУН) established contacts with Western Ally intelligence services. -
so his activities after war seems to be classified or distorted
Whil
Is there any SOLID, RELIABLE, and NON-SOVIET source…

…t
Stepa
Doubtful
Somethin
Mr.Bandera Nationality

Hi
Your suggestions? While per p. of the ОУН   році: документи: В -х ч Ін-т історії України НАН України К.  ISBN --- in  July  talk with German official regarding  June  event Bandera stated "By the order of OUN I declare themselves a leader (German: Führer) of the Ukrainian peoples." German official comment on that stuff - "Einer Reich 
An
Thi
I
H
M
Again per p. ОУН   році: документи: В -х ч Ін-т історії України НАН України К.  ISBN --- "German: Führer) der Ukrainishce Volk" Bandera proclaimed Українська держаа на матірних українських землях "Ukrainian State at the maturity Ukrainian land" (p., p.,, etc). OUN-B planned to declare "Ukrainian State" at Kiev 
So -per common sense 
Ther
Exactly
Nationalit
I
You should reread carefully the definition of Nationality in English Wikipedia which includes the paragraph already cited above:
"Alternatively, nationality can refer to membership in a nation (collective of people sharing a national identity, usually based on ethnic and cultural ties and self-determination) even if that nation has no state, such as the Basques, Kurds, Tamils and Scots."
i
Brotherhood of Veterans of the st-Division of the Ukrainian National Army as a source

Source [
Writte
Coul
That'
Could you be stright on topic and simply provide a link which prove your text? Thanks. Could you provide a link were GREGOROVICH prove Logusz assumptions? Thanks If you would like to discuss anything else 
Sorry
So link to sources which indicate Logusz as a published historian. Link to That's already been described somewhere. I hope you know 
Template: office holder?

Jus

Stolze testimony

Th
Whic
Th
Pleac
Wikipedia:Verifiability

User:Galassi erased citation of the document and link to the book published at Institute of History of Ukraine, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine official site with comment "no such PDF in existence". As this book is wellknown and frequently cited as a relevant source I'd checked this situation. It is this site design problem - the document can be accessed via MS InternetExplorer, but FireFox doesn't work with it. I'd restored the link and citation with comment "this pdf exists, use MS InternetExplorer", but User:Galassi reverted my edit with comment "neither Safari nor Firefox can find this PDF".
Thi
Th
Wikipedia general rules are, for example, a book is in a library in Australia, but this library is public, not private. It means everybody being in Australia can access this book. If some wikipedia editor can not access this book, this book IS verifiable, as somebody else CAN take it and read. It is no any rules in Wikipedia stating on-line sources must be accessible for every Internet browser. If online source is accessible via IE 
ol
I
www.history.org.ua/LiberUA/Book/Upa/.pdf and history.org.ua/oun_upa/upa/.pdf not the same URL. While it's simply online version of paper book published by Institute of History of Ukraine, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in  
Wrong OUN and "balance"


Himka citation reffered to OUN (early s) - but not OUN-B appeared in  which he clear distinct.
It's not article about OUN in  under Mykola Lebed - it's article about S.Bandera and endorsed by him documents in 
Guess why Institute of History of Ukraine, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine should be "balanced" through Ukrainian Quarterly and even Ukrainian Quarterly Spring 
YIVO Annual of Jewish Social Science v. , pp. –, – - can't find such claims at mentioned source - could you WP:V? Thanks
whic
Fishbei
Gues
Jodo
Yo
, K.C. Нариси з історії політичноо терору і тероризму  Україні XIX—XX ст. Інститут історії України НАН України,  "OUN in " "OUN and UPA in " ISBN ---- Berkhoff and M. Carynnyk 'The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and Its Attitude toward Germans and Jews: Iaroslav Stets’ko’s  Zhyttiepys' in: Harvard Ukrainian Studies, vol.  (), nr. /, pp. — Dr. Franziska Bruder The International Institute for Holocaust Research No.  -June  p. ISSN - as a cherry-picked points? Could your give a link to WP:RS which bear same conclusion? I suggest you mean In the Ranks of the UPA: A Collection of Memoirs by Form[er] Soldiers of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army), ed. by Dr. Petro Mirchuk and V. Davydenko, Prolog Association Library No. , New York: Society of Former Soldiers of the UPA in the USA and Canada, ; pp. - from here  
While in regards to Himka resent opinion about book which "exonerate the OUN of charges of antisemitism and complicity in the Holocaust "
I
An
Views towards other ethnic groups

Thi
May I remind you -
In May  at a meeting in Krakow the leadership of Bandera's OUN faction adopted the program “Struggle and action for OUN during the war” (Ukrainian: ”Боротьба  діяльність ОУН під час іни») which outlined the plans for activities at the onset of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union and the western territories of the Ukrainian SSR.  Section G of that document –“Orders for first days of the state living organization” Ukrainian: “Вказіки на перші дні оранізації держаноо життя» outline activity of the Bandera followers during summer 

Ukrainia
Ukrain
Anywa
Just a note 
I also suggest expand citation given at text Jews must be isolated, removed from governmental positions, those who are deemed necessary may only work with an overseer in whole 
claims about "Jew associates, notably Lev Rebet and Richard Yary." seems to be a part of the the KGB Disinformation Campaign Against Ukrainians and Jews. By Ukrainian Quarterly:) Per Патриляк. Віськоа діяльність ОУН(Б) у — роках. — Уніерситет імені Шеченко \Ін-т історії України НАН України Киї,  -Richard Yary was a gestapo 
You shouldn't selectively translate quotes. It's unfortunate that you seemingly haven't learned from your year-long block and are back to repeating your behavior, some examples in the past being hereand here and here. Of course you can cherry-pick and find individual antisemitic quotes linked to and by Bandera. For a long time you kept inserting this quote from an OUN conference: "OUN-B also declared that Jews of the USSR were the most faithful supporters of the Bolshevik regime and the vanguard of Muscovite imperialism in the Ukraine." Thanks to Pawel providing an excellent source by Jaroslaw Hrycak, we now see that the conference not only stated the above but also condemned anti-Jewish pogroms because they distracted attention from the real enemy of the Ukrainians, the Bolshevik regime (conversation is here). So rather than present everything, you put in one piece of information but hide another in order to push your skewed POV. Thus forcing other editors to waste their time tracking down your additions. As for Richard Yary 
Please be stright on topic. So can you cite me a page from Phillip Friedman's work were he indicate how Bandera issue orders to save a Jews? You know WP articles are not RS by themselves . While who is Chuyev, Sergei ? Does his work was endorsed by two Scholar Councils like Віськоа діяльність ОУН(Б) у — роках. — Уніерситет імені Шеченко \Ін-т історії України НАН України Киї,  for instance ? So you object again (as it happened with Gaupshturmfuhrer der SS Y.Krokhmalyuk "source") to remove hoax from WP? Pitty 
I also hope you can handle a diff between pogrom and Shoa (Тому стою на станоищi инищення жидi i доцiльности перенести на Україну нiмецькi методи екстермiнацiї жидiста, иключаючи їх асимiляцiю i т. п 
 
Jewysh physician and his wife whom he knows in Israel who were saved by UPA, another Jewish physician and his brother who lived in Tel Aviv after the war 
Um
So could you cite a page number about "many" Thanks. "Fighters" 
FYI
Could you specify a volume or artilce name? I'll check. Which WP:RS indicate perfect historical credentials of Mr.Fishbein? -  this one? In order to don't take up people's time 
facepalm*--Льіськ
Chronology order of the Views_towards_other_ethnic_groups section

November  – early  In late , Ukrainian nationalist groups began a campaign of ethnic cleansing of Volhynia, and in early , these campaigns began to include Eastern Galicia. It is alleged that up to , Polish civilians were murdered, by Ukrainian groups including the OUN-Bandera which bears primary responsibility for the massacres
 (obsolete text ()of Himka which in  conclude)Unlike competing Polish, Russian, Hungarian or Romanian nationalisms, Ukrainian nationalism did not include antisemitism as a core aspect of its program and saw Russians as well as Poles as the chief enemy with Jews playing a secondary role. .
March  German intelligence concluded that Ukrainian nationalists were indifferent to the plight of the Jews and were willing to either kill them or help them, depending on what better served their cause.
April 
May 
Late  and irrelevant to Bandera

Putin said...

It is reported that Putin told Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev that Yushchenko 'spat in the face' of his supporters by declaring Bandera national hero. Is this worth mentioning in the article? I am not sure if this information is correct. Find it a bit strange that Putin would talk to Mr. Nazarbayev about Bandera. Wonder if Nazarbayev knows who Bandera is....

Sources added


why Mr.Yuriy Lukanov, a freelance journalist in Kyiv deserved to be citing twice? Is he is scholar and Kyiv Post is an edition of the Ukrainian Academy of Science? I think his opionions irrelevent in WP.
Source Heroes and villains: creating national history in contemporary Ukraine got only string It is complicated by the decades of monotonous Soviet narratives of the OUN-UPA treachery and collaboration
"independent researcher" Léonard Leshuk, US intelligence perceptions of Soviet power, - clearly indicate Baltic nationalists movement 
S
Source misused

Here  in source  JOHN-PAUL HIMKA (University of Alberta) clearly indicate intent of the Bander's followers
When Hitler launched his invasion of the Soviet Union in June , the nationalists' hopes seemed on the verge of fulfillment. At the behest of Stepan Bandera, the leader of the revolutionary wing of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, Volodymyr Stakhiv wrote to Hitler on  June  to express confidence that the German campaign would "destroy the corrupting Jewish- Bolshevik influence in Europe and finally break Russian imperialism" and to point out that "the restoration of an independent national Ukrainian state along the lines of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty will firmly establish the ethnic ( vцlkische) new order in Eastern Europe." () The letter fairly accurately captures the mood of the nationalists. The reference to the "Jewish-Bolshevik influence" was not a stock phrase of Ukrainian nationalism, which tended to identify Bolshevism more with Russians than Jews, but an indication that the nationalists were willing to accommodate Nazi anti-Semitism.
Also in Himka's text later
it is reasonable to assume that the Bandera partisan movement, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA)--... -- liquidated Jewish partisan bands because they were pro-Communist.
During the Ukrainian-Polish irregular war that was conducted as a shadow conflict within World War II, some Jewish partisans sided with the Polish side and therefore were attacked by forces associated with the Bandera movement
Issue need to be fixed 
Ho
Nice example of cherry-picking Himka. You quoted "it is reasonable to assume that the Bandera partisan movement, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA)--... -- liquidated Jewish partisan bands because they were pro-Communist". You left out a part - the full quote was "Although inadequately documented, it is reasonable to assume that the Bandera partisan movement, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA)--like its Polish counterpart, the Home Army (AK)--liquidated Jewish partisan bands because they were pro-Communist."
Here is an entire paragraph from Himka, which shows that that my summary was accurate and your accusation was false. Himka wrote: "Ukrainian nationalism incorporated little modern anti
So actully why Himks's text directly related to Bandera was ommited??? It's article about leader of the revolutionary wing of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists not about AK 

So 
Wha
Category missed

Per article text, dozen of sources and own Bandera's words -
Category - Nazi collaborators
While I guess which one to choose -
Polis
or
Ukrainian Nazi collaborators (as far as OUN(B) declared a "Ukrainian" "state" in Lviv 
Or add both - I think same category also missed at Mr.Shukevitch, Yaroslev Stetsko and some other listed in WP persons which actively collaborate with Nazy from early  (see І.К. Патриляк. Віськоа діяльність ОУН(Б) у — роках. — Уніерситет імені Шеченко \Ін-т історії України НАН України Киї,  (No ISBN) ОУН   році: документи: В -х ч Ін-т історії України НАН України К.  ISBN --- Оранізація українських націоналісті і Українська постанська армія. Інститут історії НАН України.р,D.Vyedeneyev O.Lysenko OUN and foreign intelligence services s-s Ukrainian Historical Magazine ,  – Institute of History National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine etc.etc. Thank you for your suggestionsJodoe (talk) :,  February  (UTC) 
. Deeply deplores the decision by the outgoing President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, posthumously to award Stepan Bandera, a leader of the Organisation of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) which collaborated with Nazi Germany, the title of 'National Hero of Ukraine'; hopes, in this regard, that the new Ukrainian leadership will reconsider such decisions and will maintain its commitment to European values
Jodo
Vikto
O
POV problems

Th
Car
o
Th
Th
I
Agai
Dmowsk
Wha
So you want to canvas Hungarian, Russian, etc. nationalists in the hope that they contradict what a reliable source states? It's a good thing that wikipedia has rules stressing the need for reliable sources. Here is the full text by Himka. The antisemitism part: "Ukrainian nationalism incorporated little modern anti
Firs
O
Please clarify. Himka's conclusion that you object to has two parts. The first is that antisemitisnm played a central role in Polisn, Russian, Hungarian and Romanian nationalisms. Do you consider this part 
Faustia
S
Nope, because the early to mid th century Polish nationalism did not have Anti-Semitism as its core. Such a generalization is just not true. The article at the moment says that the Ukrainian nationalists saw the Russians and the Poles as the chief enemy not Jews. Well it was much the same with the Polish nationalists, their chief enemy were the Germans. At the moment we have a tragicomic paradox that the nationalists who did not collaborate with Nazi Germany and who did not participate in murders of Jews 
A
The problem with that is that the fact that antisemitism wasn't a core part of the Ukrainian nationalist program 
Nahum Goldmann in his book The Jewish Paradox p. write:" Before the war I was in touch with the Polish government, which made no bones of its antisemitism, and in particular its foreign minister, Joseph Beck. When I told him that Poland ought to grant its Jews greater economic freedom, his reply was cynical: "On the contrary, we are actually thinking of maybe introducing the equivalent of the Nuremberg Laws. And he explained it as follows: 'We need foreign currency 
Himka writes: It has also become more difficult to maintain the innocence of Ukrainian national ideology in light of recent research. It is now clear that Ukrainian nationalism in Galicia was already highly racialized in the late th century and had developed an elaborate anti-Jewish discourse. Anti-Semitic articles appeared regularly in the interwar Western Ukrainian press. During the war OUN leader Yaroslav Stetsko expressed his support for German-style eliminationist anti-Semitism. (War Criminality: A Blank Spot in the Collective Memory of the Ukrainian Diaspora' (). The cited article (Zwoje) is from .
-Both factions of the OUN were anti-Semitic themselves, and wartime documents with regard to leading Banderists show that during the German invasion, they wanted the Jews, or at the very least Jewish males, killed, and that they were willing to participate in the process.
- Stefan Lenkavsky', the OUN-B propaganda chief openly endorsed the German methods against the Jews. 
- Ukrainian nationalists usually support their claim that the UPA was multiethnic and/or not anti-Semitic by pointing to the fact that the organization had Jewish doctors in its ranks. However they fail to state that these same doctors were eliminated by the UPA once the Germans retreated from Ukraine. 
With the advance of the Red Army, Jewish specialists were killed/executed.  Obviously not all of them were murdered. Does Friedmann mention anything about it? He is given as one of the sources. "In the official organ of the OUN-B's leadership, instructions to OUN groups urged those groups to "liquidate the manifestations of harmful foreign influence, particularly the German racist concepts and practices." 
Friedman noted a claim by two sources (first by a woman whose surname began with E, I don't have Friedman's book and probably won't have time to go to thje university library for awhile) but noted that there were no details to the first claim and that the second claim was mistaken. Specifically, he wrote that a claim that Jews were killed by UPA when the Soviets advanced was mistaken because in reality it was not a Soviet advance but a German one and the Jews did not escape in time. Friedman did note that he personally met several Jews who had been saved by UPA and lived in Israel after the war. One has to twist Friedman's work in order to use it to unambiguously support the claim that UPA killed its Jewish personnel. Read note  here.
As for Himka - as noted he did not deny that Ukrainian nationalism included antisemitism, rather that antisemitism wasn't a core aspect of its program and that Jews were never seen as the principal or even a principal enemy. There was no belief in an anti-Ukrainian Jewish conspiracy and that these facts differentiated Ukrainian nationalism from that of its Polish, Russian, Hungarian and Romanian neighbors. Himka's conclusion was that the relationship betwen Ukrainian nationalists and Jews was ambiguous and in my opinion, for the purposes of this article, a brief conclusion is probably warranted while a more detailed description may belong in the OUN article. The examples of antisemitism you cite above mostly came from the period when the OUN was still cooperating with the Germans. In accordance with Himka's conclusion, the OUN was certainly willing to kill Jews if that were the price for a beneficial alliance with Germany (and the anti-Jewish propaganda mostly from  to  supports this assertion) but it was not an end in itself and otherwise the OUN was willing to help Jews. Antisemitism was temporary and strategic rather than a coe part of tghe programme. The citations you quoted support this too:
Both factions of the OUN were anti-Semitic themselves, and wartime documents with regard to leading Banderists show that during the German invasion, they wanted the Jews, or at the very least Jewish males, killed, and that they were willing to participate in the process.
I
Still "Hero of Ukraine"?

Sinc
Yes
Well he might be a "Hero of Ukraine" until May Day but that makes him no more hero of Ukraine than other war criminals, serial murders and terrorists.

Awar
Genocide

Well... A nazi who killed  (!ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND!) people is presented here as a heroic patriot and an example for young Ukrainians to follow. I think that just one sentence about bandera's mass murder activity is some kind of absurd and that this hitlerist genocidal fanatician demands at least one extra independent cathegory where one could find some neutral and truthful informations. It's not that hitler=bad and bandera=good. ALL the nazis are evil, ok? And don't get me wrong - I'm no communist, I'm a Nationalist myself, but I hate nazism so much as I am a Pole.
Only Truth shall set you free - time to get this, people.
...
Th
Bandera response to Nazis in 

This piece of information is especially dubious: "In , Bandera was asked by Nazi officers whether he would support Hitler or not. According to one unverified source, "Bandera quickly replied that it was clear that the Nazis would lose the war, and there was nothing to be gained for Ukraine by siding with them".
If there any other NPOV sources that could confirm that? I mean the response "no" to such question about Hitler answered by prisoner in concentration camp should have lead to gas chamber for sure. I doubt this had place in reality.
Activities of OUN and UPA with Nazis that followed were very intense: people were trained, ammunition was supplied, joint actions were coordinated. If Bandera thought that Nazis would loose, then why this intense cooperation followed?
Thi
Picture candidates



No. 


No. 
Should one of this  pictures be added to the article? Since they say something about his present popularity (or not and these are just exceptions?).


I
Streetca
Relations with nazi Germany section needs cleaning up

Thi
Agree 
Rationale for the award and its annulment

Wha
Vikto
P
I'
Yea
Orphaned references in Stepan Bandera

I check pages listed in Category:Pages with incorrect ref formatting to try to fix reference errors. One of the things I do is look for content for orphaned references in wikilinked articles. I have found content for some of Stepan Bandera's orphans, the problem is that I found more than one version. I can't determine which (if any) is correct for this article, so I am asking for a sentient editor to look it over and copy the correct ref content into this article.
Reference named "HACShukhevych":
Fro
Fro

Done
After  until 

Thi
