A. Stepan Bandera ( Ukr. Stepan Bandera Andrіyovich , 1 January 1909 , Old Uhryniv , Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria , Austria-Hungary  - 15 October 1959 , Munich , Germany ) - Ukrainian politician, ideologue and theoretician of Ukrainian nationalism [1] . In his youth he was known as Gordon " , as well as some of the other [2] .
Born into a family of the Greek Catholic priest. Member of the Ukrainian military organization (from 1927 ) and the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (since 1929 ), marginal conductor [Comm 1] OUN in Western Ukraine (since 1933 ). Organizer of a series of terrorist attacks. In 1934 he was arrested by the Polish authorities and sentenced to death, later commuted to life imprisonment. In 1936-1939, served time in Polish prisons, freedom was in September 1939 by the German attack on Poland. Some time in the underground in Soviet territory, then went to the West. In February 1940  - after the split OUN - the faction of OUN (b) (Bandera Movement). In 1941 was created a year ago headed the OUN Revolutionary Headquarters. After Germany invaded the USSR along with other leaders of the Ukrainian nationalist movement arrested by the German occupation authorities for attempting self-proclamation of the Ukrainian state and detained, and later sent to the concentration camp of Sachsenhausen , where was released in September 1944 . In 1947 became the head of the OUN wires. In 1959 , was killed as a KGB agent Bohdan Stashinskomu [3] .
In terms of the personality of Stepan Bandera extremely polar. Today, he enjoys great popularity especially among the residents of Western Ukraine  - after the collapse of the Soviet Union for many western Ukrainians, his name became a symbol of the struggle for the independence of Ukraine. In turn, the residents of eastern Ukraine , as well as Poland and Russia regard him mostly negative, blaming fascism , terrorism , radical nationalism and collaborators [4] [5] . The concept of " Bandera "in the USSR gradually become a household name and was applied to all Ukrainian nationalists, regardless of their relationship to Bandera [6] [7] [1] .Children and youth (1909-1927)

[ edit ] Family. Infancy


House in Old Ugrinove where Bandera was born and spent the first ten years of life
A. Stepan Bandera was born on 1 January 1909 in the Galician village of Old Uhryniv , in the Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria , which was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire . His father, Andrew M. Bandera , a Greek Catholic priest, came from a family Striysky burghers of farmers Michael and Rosalie Bander. Andrei's wife, Miroslava V. , born Glodzinskaya, was the daughter of the Greek Catholic priest in the Old Ugrinova Glodzinskogo Vladimir and his wife Catherine. Stepan was the second child of Andrew and Miroslava after her elder sister Martha Maria [RU] (b. 1907). Later in the family were born, six children: Alexander (b. 1911), Vladimir [RU] (b. 1913), Basil (b. 1915), Oksana [RU] (born 1917), Bogdan [RU] (p. 1921) and Miroslav (she died in 1922, a baby) [8] [9] .
Bander family had lived in their own homes and in the office building, which belonged to the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church . The first years of his life spent in Stepan large close-knit family, where there was, as he later recalled, "the atmosphere of Ukrainian patriotism and living national, cultural, political and social interests" . Father Andrew was a strong Ukrainian nationalist and their children brought up in the same spirit. House at Bandar had a large library, a visit to the head of the family often visited relatives and friends, who took an active part in the Ukrainian national life Galicia. Among them were his uncle Stepan - Paul Glodzinsky (one of the founders of the large Ukrainian business organizations " Maslosoyuz [RU] "and" Rural ruler [RU] ") and Jaroslav Veselovsky (Member of the Austro-Hungarian Parliament) as well as known at the time the sculptor Michael Gavrilko [ru] and others. All of these people have had a significant impact on the future leader of the OUN. Through the activities of his father Andrew and care of its guests, in the old Reading Room Ugrinove organized society "Enlightenment" ( Ukr. "Prosvita" ) and the circle of "home school."
Stepan was an obedient child, never contradicted adults and deep respect for his parents. Was brought up in a very religious family, a boy from an early age was committed to the church and faith in God, in the morning and in the evening for a long time praying. In elementary school, he did not go, because these years occurred in the time of war, so that my father while he was home, he works with children.
In 1914 , when Stepan was five, started the First World War . The boy repeatedly witnessed fighting: During the war, the front line was repeatedly passed through the village of Old Uhryniv: in 1914-1915 and twice in 1917 . The last time the heavy fighting in the area of the village lasted two weeks, and the house Bander been partially destroyed, as a result, but no one was killed or even injured. These developments have made ​​a huge impression on Stephen, but an even greater impact on the child had a burst of activity of the Ukrainian national liberation movement (caused by the defeat of Austria-Hungary in the war and its subsequent decay), which were joined by Andriy Bandera. Speaking as one of the organizers of the uprising in Kalush district, he was involved in the formation of the inhabitants of the surrounding villages of the armed forces. Later, he moved to his father Stephen Stanislav , where he became a member of the Ukrainian National glad [RU]  - Parliament of the Western Ukrainian People's Republic (ZUNR), proclaimed the Ukrainian lands of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire - and even after some time he joined the chaplain in the Ukrainian Galician Army (CAA). Mother with children in the meantime moved to Yagelnitsu near Chortkiv , where she settled in the house of his brother Miroslav, father Antonovich, temporarily replacing the absent father of the children. Here in June 1919 , Miroslav V. child was again in the midst of war: from Chortkiv attack and the subsequent defeat of almost all parts of the CAA men of his relatives on the maternal side of Stepan had to leave for Zbruch , to the territory of the UPR . Women and children remained in Yagelnitse, but in September returned to Old Uhryniv (Stepan himself went to the parents of his father in Stry ). Only one year later, in the summer of 1920 , he returned to the Old Uhryniv Andrey Bandera. For a while he was hiding from the Polish authorities, pursuing Ukrainian activists, but in the fall once again became a priest in the village church [10] [9] .
[ edit ] Eastern Galicia was part of Poland
UGA defeat in the war with Poland led to the establishment in July 1919 with a total occupation of Eastern Galicia Polish troops. Allied Ambassadors Council initially recognized for Poland only entitled to the occupation of Eastern Galicia with respect for the rights of the Ukrainian people and autonomy. Ethnic Ukrainians refused to recognize the Polish government, boycotted the census and elections to the Sejm. Meanwhile in Poland, regardless of international opinion, declared respect for minorities and formalize it in their constitutions. March 14, 1923 the Council of Ambassadors of the Entente recognized the sovereignty of Poland over Eastern Galicia, the Polish authorities have received assurances that they will provide the edge of autonomy in the administration to impose the Ukrainian language and Ukrainian university open. These conditions have not been met.
The Polish government adopted a policy of forced assimilation of Galicia and the Polonization of the Ukrainian population, giving it political, economic and cultural pressures. Ukrainian language had no official status, positions in local governments could borrow only Poles. In Galicia, a flood of Polish immigrants, which the government provided land and housing. Dissatisfaction with this policy took the form of strikes, boycott of elections. In the summer of 1930 in Galicia, there were more than two thousand houses burning Polish landowners. The reaction was immediate - within one year, were arrested two thousand Ukrainians suspected of arson.
In 1920, Czechoslovakia emerged illegal Ukrainian troop organization (SVR), to use military methods against the Polish administration in Galicia. It consisted of mostly veterans of the Ukrainian Galician Army and the Ukrainian Sich Riflemen. In 1929, based on SVR was created the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists .
[ edit ] Education in High School


Bandar schoolboy in their bellies form. Photos 1923
As mentioned above, in 1919 he moved to Stepan Stry the parents of his father and went to one of the few Ukrainian classical schools. Originally organized and contain the Ukrainian community, over time the school has received the status of a public, state school. Despite the fact that in its ethnic composition Stryis'ka gymnasium was almost exclusively Ukrainian, Polish city government tried to introduce in there the environment "Polish Spirit", which often led to protests by teachers and the students. Stepan was educated at school for eight years, he studied Greek and Latin , history, literature, psychology, logic, and philosophy. "He was short, brown hair, very poorly dressed" - recalled of his high-school student-Bandera classmate Jaroslav Cancer. Needs that Stepan really felt at the time, in the fourth class of the gymnasium had forced him to give paid lessons to other students [11] [9] [12] .
In 1922 a dream came true, Stepan, he cherished the first days of school - he was accepted into the Ukrainian scout organization " Plast . " Previously, he was denied because of poor health. In Stryj Bandera was part of the leadership of the Fifth reservoir hut named Yaroslav Osmomysl , and then, after graduating from high school, was among the leaders of the Second Senior Plast hut, group "Red viburnum," up to the prohibition of the Polish authorities "layers" in 1930. In the fifth grade, in addition, Bandera joined one of the Ukrainian youth organizations, which was unusual - usually members of such associations become seven-and eighth-graders [13] [12] .
His peers later recalled that as a teenager he began to prepare for future challenges and hardship, without the knowledge of adults engaged in self-torture, and even drove needles under his fingernails, preparing thus to police torture. Later, while studying at the school, according to Soviet journalist Vladimir Belyaev, who could communicate with the people who knew the family Bander, small Stepan on a bet in front of their peers in one hand strangling cats "to strengthen the will." G. Gordasevich explains this episode possible that, in preparation for the revolutionary struggle, Bandera check whether he can take the life of a living creature [14] [15] . Self-torture, and dousing with cold water, and long hours of standing in the cold seriously undermined the health of Stephen, triggering rheumatic joints - a disease that Bandera pursued throughout his life [16] [9] [1] .
Schoolboy Bandera lot in sports, despite the disease, in his spare time he sang in the choir, played the guitar and mandolin , enjoyed extremely popular at the time playing chess , never smoked or drank alcohol [17] . Bandera outlook was influenced by nationalist ideas, popular among Western Ukrainian youth of that time, along with other high-school boys, he belonged to the numerous nationalist youth organizations, the largest of which was a group of Ukrainian youth statist (GUGM) and the Ukrainian high school gymnasiums (OSKUG), one of whose leaders had Stepan. In 1926 the two organizations merged into the Union of Ukrainian Nationalist Youth (SUNM) [18] .
[ edit ] Youth (1927-1934)

[ edit ] Student years. Starting in OUN


Stepan Bandera - Plastun hut "Red viburnum." Photo 1929 or 1930
In mid- 1927 Bandera passed their final exams in high school and decided to enroll in the Ukrainian economic Academy in Podebrady ( Czechoslovakia ), but Polish authorities refused to give the young man a passport, and he was forced to stay in the old year Ugrinove. In his native village Bandera is engaged in farming, cultural and educational work, worked in the library of "enlightened", led the amateur theatrical group and choir, he oversaw the work of organized sports society " Meadow [RU] ". All he managed to combine with underground work under the Ukrainian military organization (SVR), with ideas and activities which Stepan met in high school, high school, senior fellow with the mediation of Stepan Ohrimovicha [RU] [17] . Formally became a member of the SVR Bandera in 1928 , having been appointed to the intelligence, and then in the propaganda department [19] [12] .
In September 1928 Bandera moved to Lviv to study at the Agronomy Department of the Lviv Polytechnic . Here a young man he studied for six years, of which the first two years - in Lviv, the next two - mostly Dublyanah , where the agronomic subsidiary Polytechnics and spends most of seminars and laboratory sessions, and the last two - again in Lviv. Stepan vacation spent in the village of Wola Zaderevatskaya , where he received the arrival of his father. In the period of higher education Bandera not only continued to work in the underground OUN and SVR, but also participated in the formal Ukrainian national movement: in a society composed of Ukrainian students of the Lviv Polytechnic "basis" in the circle and students villagers had worked in public office " farmer, "is still working closely with the" enlightened ", whose name is often traveled to the village of Lviv and lectured. Bandera and continued to play sports, first in the "Layers", then - in the Ukrainian student sports club [RU] (USSK), in societies " Falcon-Old Man "and" Lug ", demonstrated success in track and field, swimming, basketball, skiing . At the same time he learned not too successfully, several times he took a leave of absence - student learning is largely hampered by the fact that most of their energy Bandera gave revolutionary activities. When, in 1929 established the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), he became one of the first members in the western Ukraine . To join the organization, the young man was forced to resort to cunning and assign yourself a year, since the OUN took only 21 years of age. Shankovsky Leo [ru] recalled that Bandera was already "a confirmed nationalist" and enjoyed great sympathy Ohrimovicha Stepan, who spoke of a young member of the organization: "From Stepankov are still people!" [20] In spite of his young age, Bandera quickly took the leading position in the organization, becoming one of the most influential figures of workers in the field [21] [12 ] .


21 October 1928 . The General Council of the "Red viburnum" in the Academic building in Lviv. First on the left in the bottom row - Stepan Ohrimovich [RU] , the fourth - Eugene, Julius Pelensky [RU] . The second and third from the right in the top row - Jaroslav Cancer [ru] and Jaroslav Padoh [ru] , respectively. Stepan Bandera - in the top row, fourth from left
Immediately after joining the OUN Bandera I took part in the conference of OUN Stryiskyi District. Stepan's first assignment in the newly formed organization was the extension of the underground nationalist literature in the native Kalush district, as well as among students of Lviv. Simultaneously young OUNovets performed various functions in the department of propaganda, with 1930 became the lead department clandestine editions later - technical publishing department, and from the beginning in 1931  - and even shipping department underground publications from abroad. In addition, in the years 1928-1930 was listed Stepan correspondent clandestine monthly satirical magazine 'Pride of the Nation. " He signed his articles pseudonym "Matthew Gordon". Due to organizational skills Bandera was arranged illegal shipping overseas publications such as " Surma [RU] "," Awakening of the nation "," Ukrainian nationalist "and" Bulletin edge ekzekutivy OUN in the West Ukrainian lands (ZUZ) "and magazine " Yunak [RU] ", is printed directly on the territory of Poland . Polish police made ​​many attempts to open a network of distributors, in which was repeatedly arrested and Stepan Bandera, but every time a few days after his arrest he was let [22] [23] .
In the wire edge on ZUZ ekzekutivy OUN Bandera came in 1931, when the boundary was the conductor Ivan Gabrusevich . Knowledgeable about the success of the young man in the spread of the underground press, Gabrusevich appointed Bandera referent of the Propaganda Department, confident that he will cope with the tasks. At the head of the Propaganda Department, despite the honor, Bandera was not easy: working in the field of educated and capable people demanded from him the ability to engage with subordinates. In the short term the future head of the OUN propaganda was able to raise the matter at the highest level of the organization, thus aligning the leadership of the department to provide communication between the foreign management and members of OUN in the field. Since 1931, Bandera was in touch with other countries, which often went clandestine ways. His career began to move up rapidly: in 1932 Bandera went to Danzig , where he was trained in a special forces, and the following year the Ukrainian Nationalist led by Eugene Konovalets appointed him to serve as the regional conductor OUN in Western Ukraine and the regional military commander department OUN-SVR [24] . In total, for the period from 1930 to 1933 Bandera was arrested five times: in 1930 with his father for the anti-Polish propaganda in the summer of 1931 - for attempting to illegally pass the Polish-Czech border, then again in 1931, this time for involvement the assassination of the Political Police Commissioner Brigade Lviv E. Chekhov. March 10 1932 Bandera was arrested in Cieszyn , and June 2 next year - in Tczew [25] .
December 22 , 1932, the day of execution militants OUNovtsev Danylyshyn Bilas and Lviv, Stepan Bandera and Shukhevych organized and conducted a propaganda campaign: at six o'clock in the evening, at the time of the hanging fighters in all Ukrainian churches rang bells of Lviv [26] .
[ citation needed ] At the head of the Local Headquarters
In the famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933, under the leadership of the OUN Bandera has organized a series of protests in support of starving Ukrainians. Simultaneously, the edges of the frame OUN started a broad front against the pro-Soviet Communist Party of Western Ukraine (KPZU), paralyzing its influence on Western Ukrainian lands. 3 June 1933 Conference is being held OUN decided to attack on the Soviet consul in Lviv. Operation to eliminate the consul, who personally supervised Bandera, partially failed: the day the singer attempted Lemik Nicholas came to the Soviet consulate, the alleged victim was not in place, so decided to shoot Lemik Secretary consulate A. P. Maylova , which became known to the court, was a part-time secret agent of the OGPU . Polish authorities Lemika sentenced to life in prison [27] . Other action undertaken by the order of Bandera, was the inception of the OUN-known activist Catherine Zaritsky bomb under the building of the newspaper "Prace" [28] .
To improve all areas of SWNTs on the Western Ukrainian lands Bandera decided to rebuild the structural organization. At the conference, members of the OUN, held in July 1933 in Prague , he offered to reshape SVR in combat referantur SWNTs. This initiative was approved. Structural changes in particular affected the combat actions, the management of which was entrusted to Bandera. Twenty-four young people, the conference was formally confirmed as the edge of the conductor and introduced to the wire SWNTs. During the period of Bandera in the position changes have occurred in the tactics of anti-Polish armed actions: before this, most of expropriation was of nature (so-called. " expropriations [RU] "), then the OUN Bandera became increasingly favor terrorist acts previously use less widely [29] . The young conductor boundary paying attention to different sides of the underground activities: simultaneously with the organization undercover battle groups he called to focus on the involvement of the people for an armed struggle against the Poles, to head for the mass nationalist movement. With the same purpose Bandera proposed to reorganize personnel and organizational work and ensure its implementation throughout the Western Ukraine, and not only among students and ex-military, but also to the workers and peasants. Through mass campaigns aimed at awakening the national and political participation of Ukrainians, Bandera was able to significantly expand the activities of OUN, sweeping in many quarters of the Ukrainian society. The number of such shares included funeral and demonstration commemorating the fighters for the independence of Ukraine in the period of the Civil War , construction of symbolic graves of fallen soldiers, which caused hostility and active opposition from the Polish authorities. Carried out on the initiative of Bandera and other actions, including antitrust, whose members refused to buy Polish vodka and tobacco, as well as the school in which the Ukrainians, the Polish students boycotted all: national symbols, language, teachers Poles. The latest action was carried out one day and combined, according to a Polish newspaper, tens of thousands of children. During the leadership over the boundary wire Bandera spent almost a complete overhaul of the process of training and learning in the OUN. Since then, the systematic study was conducted in three areas: the ideological, political, military combat and clandestine practice [30] [31] . In 1934 the activities of the OUN reached the greatest scope for the interwar period. Boundary value ekzekutiva OUN under Bandera endorsed the decision of the organization to ZUZ "green shots" - members of the armed guerrilla resistance to the Polish authorities, but this project has not been implemented in practice [32] .
[ edit ] Warsaw and Lviv trials


Ukrainian-leaflet "The defendants in the course of the Warsaw . " the rows, top to bottom: 
First row: Stepan Bandera, Nikolai Lebedev , Daria Gnatkovskaya [RU] , Jaroslav Karpinets [ru]
Second row: Ivan Malyutsa, Jacob Black [RU] , Eugene Kaczmarska [ RU] , Roman Migal Third row: Nicholas Klimishin [RU] , Bogdan Pidgayny [RU] , Catherine Zaritskaya , Jaroslav Cancer [ru]
Resolution of the murder of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Poland Bronislaw Peratskogo was taken in April 1933, at a special conference of OUN. Ukrainian nationalists regarded Peratskogo main implementer of the Polish policy to pacify the Western Ukraine, the author of the plan of so-called "destruction of Russia", with which flatly disagreed Polish authorities [33] . Stepan Bandera, at that time known under the alias "Baba" and "Fox", was asked the general management of the attack. assassination took place [ru] 15 June 1934: at the entrance to the cafe in Warsaw, the young minister was killed militant Matseiko Gregory , who was able escape from the scene and later fled abroad. The day before the murder of Stepan Bandera and his friend Bogdan Pidgayny [ru] Polish police were arrested while trying to cross the Polish-Czech border [RU] . Soon, the police recorded the contacts Bandera Pidgaynogo with previously arrested in Lviv Nicholas Klimishin [RU] , suspected of involvement in the assassination of Peratskogo. The investigation began. Over one and a half years Bandera held in solitary confinement in chains - his hands were released only during a meal [34] [35] [36] .
18 November 1935 in Warsaw, at number 15 on the street Honey began court over twelve Ukrainian nationalists, which included Stepan Bandera. It at the first meeting called himself "a Ukrainian national, not obeying Polish law" and refused to testify in Polish , stating that the court is obliged to respect the will of the accused. Example was followed by other defendants Bandera and even some of the witnesses. In addition, each session of the court Bandera and his comrades from the dock began with the words "Glory to Ukraine!". The process went down in history as the "Warsaw", which lasted nearly two months and was widely covered by both Polish and international press. Bandera figure given the most attention. Thus, the correspondent of "Literary Gazette", who called the young man "crazy student Polytechnics", said that he was looking straight, not sullen, and an anonymous journalist " Polish newspaper [RU] ", in turn, said Bandera propensity to violent gestures. In continuation of the Bandera acted boldly and openly defiant. Thus, in response to a comment by the prosecutor, that the military activities of OUN contradict the principles of Christian morality, he set the moral responsibility for the actions of the Ukrainian insurgents on the Polish authorities, who "trampled God and human laws, enslaved the Ukrainian people and created a situation in which [he] forced to (...) to kill the torturers and traitors " [37] . Not once Bandera force led out of the courtroom as soon as the court came to the conclusion that his behavior is out of range [38] [31] [39] [40] .
Nicholas Klimishin recalled - none of the defendants and lawyers did not believe that the court would leave Bandera in living, as well as "the very Bandera (...) did not hope that his life will continue. But, despite this, he was always quite calm and always was ready for a well-planned and accurate performance " [41] . 13 January 1936 , in accordance with the verdict of the court, Stepan Bandera, along with Nikolai Lebedev and Jaroslav Karpintsem [ RU] , was sentenced to death by hanging. The remaining prisoners confined prison terms of varying duration. When the verdict was read, Bandera and Swan exclaimed, "Let him live Ukraine!", For which both withdrew from the hall to a period of further sentencing. From the gallows three OUNovtsev save the Amnesty Act, which was adopted during the process - sentence was commuted to life imprisonment [42] [43] .
At a time when Stepan Bandera was tried in Warsaw, Lvov OUN were killed professor of philology at Lviv University Ivan Babii [ru] and his student James Bachinsky [44] . Examination showed that the murder victim had been shot and Peratsky from the same gun. This allowed the Polish authorities to organize a number of Bandera and his charges another trial [RU] , this time in Lviv, in the case of several terrorist attacks OUNovtsami. At Lviv process, which began May 25 , 1936, was attended by the 27 defendants, some of which were among the defendants in the previous process - OUN leader Nikolai Scyborsky called the events in Lviv "revenge for Warsaw" [45] . Progress Lviv process was much calmer than Warsaw - mainly due to the fact that the murder Babiy and Bachinsky produced less resonance than attempted Peratskogo and the defendant was allowed to meet in the Ukrainian language. Here, in Lviv, Bandera first openly as an edge guide SWNTs. Explaining the purpose of the organization and methods of struggle against the Bolshevik ideology , he said: "Bolshevism - a system with which Moscow has enslaved the Ukrainian nation, destroying the Ukrainian statehood" . Bandera also noted that the OUN has a negative attitude towards communism . His involvement in the death and Babiy Bachinsky he did not deny - they were killed by his personal order for the cooperation with the Polish police. In his final statement Bandera saktsentiroval attention on the variety of Ukrainian Nationalists and criticized the position of the prosecutor, described the OUN as a terrorist organization dedicated exclusively military operations. "It was no longer a young man, - said Nikolai Klimishin the process of Bandera in Lviv. - It was a conductor revolutionary organization, which (...) knew what he did and why, (...) knew what to say, what to keep silent, then seek and what categorically refuse " [46] .
According to the results of the process of Lviv Bandera was sentenced to life imprisonment (by a combination of both processes - seven life sentences) [47] [48] .
[ citation needed ] In the conclusion. Release from prison (1936-1939)

2 July 1936 Bandera was taken to jail in at number 37 on the street Rakovetskogo in Warsaw. Family members and friends sent him the money to buy food, newspapers, and books. The very next day he was sent to prison "Svente Kshizh" ("Holy Cross") near Kielce . From the memories of the Bandera, and Nicholas Klimishin serving time in the same prison conditions in the "Svente Kshizh" were bad: the cells had no beds - the prisoners slept on the cement floor, lying down on one half of the blankets, and the second half of Covering . Lack of water and no paper entailed worsening hygienic situation in the prison. For breakfast, the prisoners relied coffee with a spoon of sugar and a slice of black rye bread for lunch, usually wheat porridge [49] .
On arrival, Bandera and other prisoners at the Warsaw and Lviv processes them in prison was appointed quarantine. Bandera to cell number 14, and then at number 21. Together with him were, in particular, Nicholas Swan, Jaroslav Karpinets, Bogdan Pidgayny, Eugene Kaczmarska, Gregory Peregiynyak. For some time, Nicholas Klimishin recalled, "they were living group": exchanging literature together evenly distributed products. Bandera, according to the memoirs Klimishin, invited all inmates have not completed their training at universities, study hard by elders. So Karpinets "taught" hard sciences Klimishin - history and philosophy, Ukrainian and English. It was during the period of imprisonment, having become acquainted with the works of Ukrainian nationalist ideologue Dmytro Dontsov , Stepan Bandera found - OUN not "revolutionary" in nature, and it must be corrected [50] . In mid-January 1937 the conditions of the prison was tightened, and the acceptance of parcels from relatives of prisoners - temporarily restricted. In this regard, Bandera and other members of the OUN organized a 16-day hunger strike to protest against the actions of the prison administration. As a result, the administration made ​​concessions. In addition, Bandera Klimishin, Karpintsa, Cygnus, and placed in a cell Kaczmarska № 17 [49] .
29 April 1937 in Lviv, a meeting was held to organize the escape from prison of Stepan Bandera. The meeting was chaired by Osip Tyushka also was attended by Basil Bear, Mr Bilas and 20 nationalists, who were to take part in the operation to free the edge of the conductor. Implement his plan failed, and Stepan Bandera by June 1937 he was transferred to solitary confinement - his cellmates-OUNovtsev sent to other prisons in Poland. At the end of the year, before Christmas , he organized a choir, which he headed. Father Joseph Masonry, three times a year in prison professed Bandera, recalled that he had "received the Holy Communion is always " when the priest visited him in prison. Thanks to Joseph Mason Bandera was in constant communication with the outside world and is held until the beginning of the OUN in 1938 , when the Polish government, considering the prison "Svente Kshizh" unreliable, transferred him to the prison Wronki the city of Poznan . In June 1938 militants Shukhevych and Zenon Kossak [ru] developed a detailed plan for the liberation of Bandera. It was assumed that a prison guard, who for 50 thousand zlotys conspired with OUNovtsami during the night shift will bring the prisoner out of solitary confinement, tucked in his place, "doll", and hide in the closet, you will only have to Bandera quietly leave at the right time. The operation was canceled at the last minute for some reason - it is assumed that the militants feared assassination of Bandera in the escape. Various options were considered flight conductor and his supporters in the future, but none of them have been implemented, and Bandera learned of these plans only at large [51] [31] [49] .
After the release of Bandera's intentions became known to the authorities of Poland, Bandera was taken to Brest , in the prison located in the Brest Fortress . For a short period of stay in the facility he managed to hold a hunger strike directed against the tyranny of the Polish prison administration. Thanks coincidence Bandera avoid sending to the famous concentration camp in Bereza Kartuzskoy [52] : 13 September , a few days after the German attack on Poland , the prison administration has left the city, and soon Bandera, along with the rest of Ukrainian Nationalists - prisoners of the Brest Fortress, left on freedom. Covertly, back roads, trying to avoid encounters with the German, Polish and Soviet soldiers, ex-con with a small group of supporters went to the city. On Volhynia and Galicia Bandera to liaise with existing network OUN - so, in Sokal , he participated in a meeting of regional leaders of OUN. After analyzing the current situation in western Ukraine, Bandera came to the conclusion that all the activities of the OUN in the area should refocus on the fight against the Bolsheviks. Of Sokal, followed by future member of the Bureau are OUN Dmitry Majewski [RU] , he got a few days to Lviv [53] [49] .
[ edit ] The Second World War

[ edit ] The split in the OUN. Bandera - the leader of the OUN (b)
In Lviv, Bandera spent two weeks in conditions of strict secrecy. Despite this, he managed to get in touch with activists near the OUN and the leaders of the Ukrainian church movement. Many members of the OUN, including the boundary wire in western Ukraine Vladimir Tymchy [RU] , supported the plans of Bandera on further activity of the organization, namely, the idea of creating a network of SWNTs throughout the USSR and continued the revolutionary struggle against Soviet power in Ukraine. Fearing capture members of the NKVD , Bandera decided to leave the Lions. In the second half of October, 1939, he and his brother Basil, recently returned from a birch-Kartuzskoy, and four other OUNovtsami ring road crossed the Soviet-German demarcation line and went to Krakow . Here he was actively involved in the activities of the OUN, continuing to uphold the idea of its necessary reorganization. Right there, in Krakow, 3 June 1940 Bandera married Yaroslav Oparovskoy [54] .
In November 1939, Bandera for a while went to Slovakia for the treatment of rheumatism, much worse in detention in Polish prisons. For two weeks in Slovakia, Bandera took part in several meetings of the governing asset OUN, and later, after the course of treatment, he went to Vienna, where he operated a major center of overseas organizations. Waiting for his arrival in Vienna Vladimir Tymchego, Bandera has agreed with the joint field visit to Rome to meet with Andrew Miller , who in August 1939 at a large gathering II OUN in Italy was proclaimed successor killed in Rotterdam, the organization's leader Eugene Konovalca . There has been a split in the OUN already: some delegates opposed the election to the highest office of Miller, opting to Stepan Bandera [55] .


Andrew Miller
Terms of Melnyk on strategy of the liberation struggle of Ukrainians found serious discrepancies. So, thought it necessary to Bandera rely primarily on their own resources, since the independence of Ukraine, according to him, no one was interested. Possible alliance with Germany, he and his supporters considered solely as a temporary [56] . According to Ivan Gjøvik, Bandera acted "for the Germans to put before the fact - to recognize the Ukrainian independent state" [57] . Miller, on the contrary, believed that the rate should be given to Nazi Germany , and to create an armed underground in no way be [58] . The fact that the separation of SWNTs inevitable Bandera knew long before meeting with Miller. Almost two months to the last, 10 February 1940 , he called some of the leaders in Krakow OUN Galicia and Carpathian and declaring himself the rightful heir Konovalca as head of the organization, has created a revolutionary wire SWNTs. It included the closest associates of Bandera: Jaroslav Stetsko , Stepan Lenkavsky , Nicholas Swan Shukhevych and Basil Ohrimovich [RU] [59] . Bandera Tymchego meeting with Miller was held on April 5 , 1940 in a town in northern Italy. The conversation took place in a raised voice: Miller rejected a proposal to break off relations with Germany, and did not agree with the shift key positions in Pune Yaroslav Baranovsky , who accused the supporters of Bandera some failures SWNTs. Miller's obstinacy and persistence resulted in Bandera historical OUN split into two factions - the OUN (b) (Banderas) and OUN (m) (Melnyk). Representatives of the OUN (b) is also known as a faction of OUN (p) (revolutionary) [60] [61] .
In April 1941 the Revolutionary wire called the so-called Large Collection of OUN [RU] , unanimously elected Bandera conductor OUN (b). In 1940 forecast the imminent conflict between the USSR and Nazi Germany, Bandera began preparations for an armed struggle against Ukrainian nationalists "Moscow." OUN (B) started to organize the work of the Ukrainian lands, formed three hiking group organized underground. In Kiev and Lviv were appointed governing central authorities to continue to operate [62] [61] . "Bandera - later wrote OUN activist Maria Savchin [RU] , - able to cover the vast majority of young element " [63] . A specific ideological background split had - in the center of the conflict were questions of tactics and contradictions between the "edge" and emigration. Legitimized split reality: two virtually autonomous organization, which was exacerbated by the discord between the dispute "practitioners" and "theoreticians" and got features of generational conflict, received the final independence [64] .
[ edit ] "Act of revival of the Ukrainian state"


"Glory to Hitler! Bandera glory! ... "  - inscription on the sign at the gate Glinskikh Zholkovsky castle . Summer of 1941 , before the arrest of Bandera
Just before the outbreak of World War II initiated the Bandera Ukrainian National Committee of the struggle for the consolidation of all controlled by the OUN (b) forces, as well as training of the Legion of Ukrainian Nationalists (also Druzhina Ukrainian Nationalists - DUN) to the German troops, the soldiers who formed the core of the future of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army [62] . Comprised mainly of probanderovski minded Ukrainians, "Legion ..." was divided into two battalions - " Nachtigall "and" Roland ". Preparation of this formation was in Germany - despite the fact that the OUN (b) positioned "Legion ..." as a weapon of struggle "against the Bolshevik Moscow" and for "the restoration and protection of an independent Ukrainian State cathedral" , the division was the result of collaboration with the Germans Bandera Movement . Bandera later justified this fact must be "secure freedom and the situation in Ukraine," and wrote that "Ukraine is ready (...) to put on the front of his army against Moscow in alliance with Germany if the latter confirms the independence of Ukraine and will be officially considered an ally" . Leadership of the OUN (b) anticipated that with the beginning of the Soviet-German conflict Druzhina Ukrainian nationalists would form the basis of an independent national army, while the Germans hoped to use the Ukrainian formations in order to sabotage [65] [31] .


Jaroslav Stetsko
22 June 1941 Germany attacked the Soviet Union - the Great Patriotic War. And on June 30 rushed to the East Germans occupied Lvov. Following them entered the city Battalion "Nachtigall" led to Roman Shukhevych. The same day, on behalf of the OUN leadership (b) Jaroslav Stetsko read " The act of revival of the Ukrainian state , "reports on the establishment of "a new Ukrainian state on maternal Ukrainian lands" . In the next few days representatives of the OUN (b) formed executive body - the Ukrainian state board (OCR), organized by the National Assembly, enlisted the support of the Greek-Catholic clergy, including Metropolitan Galician Andrew (Sheptytsky) . Bandera in this period was in Krakow, away from the scene [66] [31] [67] .
Despite the fact that the OUN (b), according to Leo Shankovskogo, "was ready to cooperate with Germany for a joint struggle against Moscow," [68] , the German leadership reacted to this initiative negatively: Lviv were immediately sent to the team DM and special group Gestapo to eliminate the "conspiracy" of the Ukrainian nationalists. Stetsko proclaimed chairman OCR, and a number of its members were arrested. July 5 German authorities invited Bandera ostensibly to negotiate in the case of non-interference in the sovereign rights of the German Ukrainian state, but on arrival at the meeting place of arrest [67] . He was ordered to abandon the "Act of revival of the Ukrainian state." About the fact that ensued, the views of historians differ: some say that Bandera refused, and was then sent to the concentration camp of Sachsenhausen , while others claim that the leader of the OUN (b) to accept the demands of the Germans and only later, in September of that years, underwent a new arrest and sent to a concentration camp, where he subsequently kept in good conditions. Anyway, after the events Bandera half was kept in a German prison, police Montelyupih in Krakow, and only then was transferred to Sachsenhausen [69] [31] .
[ citation needed ] In the concentration camp


Shukhevych (left) - Chief of the UPA. The first half of the 1940s
In Sachsenhausen Bandera held in solitary confinement for a specific block of "political people" and was under constant police surveillance. Some historians point to the fact that the Germans Bandera provided certain conditions are met and a good allowance. In addition, he was allowed visits from his wife. It is noteworthy that in the same period in the camp was Andrew Miller. The heads of both factions of the OUN know that contained in the same camp. Moreover, one day, when Miller was taken for a walk, Bandera was able to tell him about the death of Oleg Olzhicha , writing soap on a window in his cell next to the name of the victim and drawing a cross [70] .
Once in the camp, Bandera was out of the process of creating in Volyn Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA), which began in October 1942 [71] . Despite this fact, the commanders and soldiers of the UPA, like many other nationalist groups, linked their struggle with his name. "Some discussions went so far that the Ukrainian government should lead Bandera, and if not, it will not let Ukraine" , - recalled kuren UPA Maxim Skorupsky [RU] , noting, however, that does not say so "respectable people" but "only drugged youth" [72] . Germans in official documents and reports used for the Ukrainian insurgents, the term "movement Bandera" ( it.  Banderabewegung ), and the concepts of the Soviet terminology "banderovschina" and "Bandera" [73] . While in detention, after his wife, comes to visit him, Bandera in touch with colleagues, namely the Roman Shukhevych, a member of the Bureau are the chief commander of the OUN and UPA, actually headed the OUN (b) in the absence of Bandera [74] . Contacts with Yaroslava Bandera had and a longtime supporter of her husband Eugene Stakhiv [75] . However, according to the historian of the modern Ukrainian Yaroslav Gritsak , Bandera while opposed to the creation of UPA and "thought it was a step to the side, called it" sikorschinoy "that is, copying the Polish underground," [76] .
From 21 to 25 August 1943 in the area Kozovskogo Ternopil region USSR passed III Large collection of SWNTs [RU] . During data collection, it was decided to resign and create a guide wire Bureau, which included Shukhevych, Rostislav Voloshin and Dmitry Majewski. After the death of the latter was the sole lead Shukhevych Wire. Bandera, who was in prison, was not elected even though "Honorary Chapter," which, according to Basil Cook , was due to security reasons - it could "accelerate its [Bandera] physical liquidation" [77] . Meanwhile, the Germans, trying to discredit the OUN (b) and UPA, spread in western Ukraine propaganda "flying detachment", which called Bandera "senior Bolshevik Soviet Ukraine", designated "red Stalin" [67] [78] .
UPA gradually become one of the most combat-ready units of Ukrainian anti-Soviet. This forced the German leadership to reconsider its attitude towards Ukrainian nationalism. September 25 1944 from Sachsenhausen was released a few hundred prisoners, Ukrainians, including Bandera and Miller [79] . After his release, according to Stepan Mudrik Swordsman, Bandera lingered for a while in Berlin. In response to the offer of cooperation on the part of the Germans Bandera added a condition - to recognize the "Act rebirth ..." and to ensure that the Ukrainian military forces as a state, not dependent on the Third Reich. The German side's failure to recognize the independence of Ukraine, and the agreement with Bandera, so was not reached. In another version, the head of the secret unit described Abwehr-2 Erwin Stolz , Bandera yet been recruited by the Abwehr and later appeared in the files of the Abwehr under the alias Gray [80] . As for Miller, he went on to open collaboration with the Germans, so that lost many supporters [81] .
[ edit ] After the release


Identification card in the name of Stepan Bandera Popel. Starnberg , 1946
Rejecting the proposal of the German authorities, Bandera was not subject to the new prosecution, but was in a situation of inactivity. He lived in Germany. Bandera's status was still not defined, his supporters believed to Krakow in 1940 Gathering OUN, Stepan A. was elected head of the wire life. Intending to resolve the issue, Bandera IV attempted to organize a collection of SWNTs, but to do so he was unable to travel due to the inability of delegates from the Ukraine [78] . "Bandera interested in everything that happened and is happening in Ukraine, from which he was completely isolated" - recalls Galina Petrenko, an activist of the Ukrainian national movement and the widow of Ivan Klimov, "Legends" [82] . Shortly after the release of Bandera Shukhevych, formerly de facto head of the OUN (b), said that it would be hard to manage both the OUN and the UPA, and suggested that the leadership of the organization should be to refer the Bandera [83] . In February 1945 , he convened a further conference of OUN (b), which proposed to elect the head of the organization of Stepan Bandera. The initiative was supported Shukhevych: Bandera became head of the organization, and Yaroslav Stetsko became his deputy [84] .
With the release in 1944, a group of prominent figures of Ukrainian nationalism, including Bandera, also known as "katsetniki" (from "KC"  - "Concentration Camp" ), accumulated between the members of the OUN (b) The controversy intensified. Stepan Bandera, Yaroslav Stetsko and their supporters were in positions of integral nationalism , advocating a return to the program and the organization of the system in 1941, and for the appointment of Bandera guide not only of Overseas Parts (AF) OUN OUN and the Ukraine. Part of the "katsetnikov", which included Leo Rebet , Stakhiv Vladimir and Yaroslav Klim, did not support this idea, standing on the side of the "locals" - representatives of the OUN, acting directly on the Ukrainian territory and opposed all Bandera headed the nationalist movement [85] . "Locals", including representatives of the main Ukrainian Liberation Council (UGOS) - "Body of political leadership Ukrainian liberation movement," accusing Bandera and his supporters in the dogmatism and unwillingness to soberly assess the situation. Those, in turn, accused the "locals" to move away from the purity of the ideas of Ukrainian nationalism [78] .
In February 1946 , on behalf of the USSR at the session of the UN General Assembly in London , the Soviet Ukrainian poet Nikolai Bajan demanded the extradition of the West of many Ukrainian nationalists, especially Bandera, calling it a "criminal against humanity" [86] [87] . In the same year, realizing that by some Ukrainian nationalists to lead anti-Bolshevik struggle impossible [78] , Bandera initiated institutionalized formed in 1943 Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations (ABN) - a focal point of anti-communist political organizations of immigrants from the Soviet Union and other countries of the socialist camp . Stood at the head of ABN closest collaborator Jaroslav Stetsko Bandera [88] .
From 28 to 31 August 1948 in Mittenwald held emergency conference AF SWNTs. At the meeting, Bandera took the initiative to go to the Ukraine to take part personally in the underground work, but present "locals" were opposed to the idea - did not help, even quoting Roman Shukhevych letters, in which he called Bandera conductor throughout SWNTs [89] . During the conference, Bandera and his supporters unilaterally deprived mandates delegates "locals" and handed them over to the AF SWNTs, as notified by the Local Headquarters, but the guide wire did not take this fact and provided delegates with new mandates. This has reinforced divisions among members of the OUN (b). As a result, the conference ended with the Bandera of the College of Commissioners - a body whose members were to collectively manage AF SWNTs [90] .
[ edit ] Recent years

 External Images
Stepan Bandera in the last years of his life
	With his wife Jaroslava on vacation
	With his son Andrew and daughter Lesia
	With Jaroslav Stetsko, daughter, and unknown in the mountains
Emigration Bandera lived hard. "Bandera lived in a very small room - recalled Jaroslav Stetsko . - They had two rooms and kitchenette, and yet there were five people. But it was all very clean, " [91] . Difficult financial situation and health problems exacerbated by political atmosphere in which he was forced to act: in 1946, the OUN (b) overdue internal split, initiated by the young "reformists" Zinovy ​​Matla [ru] and Lev Rebet. 1 February 1954 year at the next conference AF OUN this split took shape in practice. Thus, a third OUN - "abroad" [RU] (OUN (h)) [92] .
Since the second half of the 1940s led Bandera cooperation with British intelligence services and, according to some, even helped them find and prepare for the sending of spies in the USSR. Division of British intelligence who worked against the Soviet Union, led by Kim Philby , who was an agent of the Soviet intelligence. It is noteworthy that in 1946-1947, including the formation of a bison , Bandera was hunting for military police in the American zone of occupation in Germany , in connection with which he had to go into hiding, living in hiding [93] . By the beginning of 1950 Bandera settled in Munich and started to close legal existence. In 1954 he was joined by his wife and children. By this time, the Americans left Bandera in peace, while the agents of the Soviet secret police to attempt to eliminate it. To prevent possible attacks, Sat OUN (b) allocated to the leader reinforced protection, which, in cooperation with the German criminal police succeeded in preventing several assassination attempts Bandera [94] . So, in 1947, Sat OUN (B) opened and prevented an attempt on the part of Bandera recruited Kiev Yaroslav MGB Claus, and in 1948  - has unveiled another agent MGB Stelmashchuk Vladimir, who arrived in Munich on the instructions of the Warsaw Department of the Year. In autumn 1952 another attempt on the leader of the OUN (b), which had to make agents MGB - Germans Legude and Lehman, was thwarted by the actions of Western intelligence services, provides information about the impending murder of German police, and a year later, another assassination attempt, on the part of Stepan Libgoltsa was again prevented Sat OUN (b). Finally, in 1959 the German criminal police arrested a man named Vintsik, who appeared several times in Munich and children interested in Bandera [95] .
In the same year 1959, SB OUN (b) has found that a new attempt at Bandera is already prepared and can take place at any time. Leadership of the OUN (b) came to the conclusion that the leader of the organization must at least temporarily leave Munich. Bandera initially refused to leave the city, but in the end still went to the entreaties of his supporters. Organization out of Bandera engaged intelligence chief Stepan AF OUN-Mudrik "Swordsman" [96] .
[ edit ] Death

Main article: The murder of Stepan Bandera
15 October 1959 Bandera was going to go home for lunch. Before that, he came to the market, accompanied by the secretary, which did some shopping and went home already one. Near the house, he was joined by bodyguards. Bandera left my car in the garage, unlocked the door to the entrance of the house № 7 Krayttmayrshtrasse, where he lived with his family, and went inside. Here he waited for a KGB agent Bohdan Stashinsky , watching from the future victim of January. The murder weapon - a pistol-syringe with cyanide  - he had hidden in a rolled up in newspaper. Two years before the assassination of Bandera with a similar device Stashinsky here in Munich, liquidated Lev Rebet. Always cautious and vigilant, that day Bandera released guard before entering into the entrance, and they left. Climbing up to the third floor, the leader of the OUN (b) learned Stashinsky - earlier in the day he saw him in the church (the future killer Bandera carefully watched for a few days). To the question "What are you doing here?" Stranger reached out with newspaper bundle forward and shot in the face. Cotton, sounded by a shot, was barely audible - attracted the attention of neighbors screaming Bandera, who under the influence of cyanide slowly sank and fell down the stairs. By the time when neighbors looked out of their apartments, Stashinsky already left the scene. This happened about 13 hours 5 minutes [97] .
According to neighbors, lying on the floor of Bandera, whom they knew under the assumed name of Stepan Popel, was covered with blood, and probably still alive. Anyway, on the way to hospital leader of OUN (b) died without regaining consciousness. Primary diagnosis - a crack in the base of the skull in a fall. Considering the possible causes of the fall, the doctors decided on heart failure. Establish the real cause of death of Bandera's intervention helped law enforcement - when viewed from the doctor found a dead man with a gun holster (he always carried a gun), which is immediately reported to the criminal police. The examination showed that death was due to Bandera cyanide poisoning [98] .
 External Images
	Stepan Bandera in a coffin


Valdfridhof cemetery . Modern look
20 October 1959 at 9 am in the Church of St. Munich. John in Kirhenshtrasse funeral began to Stepan Bandera, which celebrated the rector of the church in the presence of Peter Golinskii Exarch Cyrus Plato Kornilyaka [RU] ; and at 15 pm the same day at the cemetery Valdfridhof in Munich were buried the dead. On the day of the funeral in the church and the cemetery were a lot of people, including delegations from around the world. In the presence of thousands of Bandera's coffin was lowered into the grave, and covered the top soil brought from the Ukraine and sprinkled with water from the Black Sea . On the grave of the leader of the OUN (b) was placed 250 wreaths. It acted as the representatives of the Ukrainian diaspora and foreigners: the ex-chairman of the National Committee of the Turkestan Great Qayyum Khan , a member of the Central Committee of ABN Bulgarian Dmytro Valchev, Emilian Ion movements and Ferenc Farkas de Kisbarnak [RU] , a member of the Slovak Liberation Committee Chtibor Pokorny, a representative of the Union of Croats united Coleman Bilic, Secretary of the English-Ukrainian Association in London, Vera Rich [RU] [99] . Ukrainian national movement were veterans of the OUN and Jaroslav Stetsko Michael Kravtsiv [RU] , writers Ivan Crimson and Theodosius Osmachka Professor Alexander Ogloblin and Ivan Vovchuk [RU] , the former commander of the UPA Nicholas Freese [RU] , Metropolitan UAOC in the Diaspora [ru] Nicanor ( Abramovich) [RU] , Gen. Nikolai Kapustyanskiy and Dmitri Dontsov Livitskaya Nicholas and others [100] . One of the German newspapers covering the event on October 20, wrote that at the cemetery , "it all looked as if between Ukrainians emigrant does not exist quarrels" [101] .
Bogdan Stashinsky was subsequently arrested by the German police and pleaded guilty in the death Rebet and Bandera. 8 October 1962 against him began loudly lawsuit Karlsruhe , which resulted in a KGB agent was sentenced to eight years' rigorous imprisonment. After serving his term, the murderer Stepan Bandera disappeared in an unknown direction [102] .
[ edit ] Family



Andrew M. Bandera
Father  - Andrew M. Bandera (1882-1941) - Ukrainian religious and political leader, the priest of the UGCC in the villages of Old Uhryniv (1913-1919), Berezhnitsa (1920-1933), Will Zaderevatskaya (1933-1937) and Trostyanec (1937-1941) . Collaborated with the magazine " Young Ukraine ", in 1918 he took part in the establishment of the Ukrainian government and the formation of peasant militias in Kalush district. Member of the Ukrainian National Rada ZUNR in Stanislav. In 1919 he served as chaplain in the 9th Regiment 3rd Brigade Berezhanskaya [ru] the 2nd Corps [ru] CAA. In 1920 - 1930 - Member of the SVR, was arrested twice and his son Stepan. May 22, 1941 he was arrested by the NKVD and taken to Kiev, where on July 8 of that year, was sentenced to death. February 8, 1992, rehabilitated Prosecutor of Ukraine . Leo Shankovsky father called Bandera "unforgettable (...) revolutionary in a cassock, who gave his son all his ardent love for the Ukrainian people and the cause of his release," [20] [103] .
Mother  - Miroslav V. Bandera , née. Glodzinskaya (1890-1922) - the daughter of a priest Vladimir Glodzinskogo. She died in the spring of 1922 from tuberculosis  - while Stepan was living with his grandfather and studied in Stryi school [103] .
Brothers:
Alexander A. Bandera (1911-1942) - Member of the OUN in 1933, Doctor of Economic Sciences. He graduated from high school and Stryj Agronomy Department of the Lviv Polytechnic. For a long time he lived and worked in Italy, married an Italian. After the proclamation of the Act of revival of the Ukrainian State came to the city where he was arrested by the Gestapo. Detained in prisons in Lviv and Krakow, July 22, 1942 was sent to the concentration camp Auschwitz , where he died under mysterious circumstances (the most common version - killed by Poles, Volksdeutsche, members of staff of Auschwitz) [103] .
Vasily A. Bandera (1915-1942) - leader of OUN. He graduated from high school Stryj, Agronomy Department of the Lviv Polytechnic and philosophy department at Lviv University. In 1937-1939 years was the Lviv regional wire SWNTs. Some time in a concentration camp in Bereza Kartuzskoy. He took part in the 2nd large gathering SWNTs. After the proclamation of the Act was the revival of the Ukrainian state referent Sat Stanislavovskogo regional wire SWNTs. September 15, 1941 he was arrested by the Gestapo. Detained in prisons and Stanislav Lviv in prison Montelyupih [ru] in Krakow. July 20, 1942 was sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp. Killed in the same circumstances as Alexander Bandera [103] .
Bohdan A. Bandera [RU] (1921-194?) - member of the OUN. He studied at the Stryi, Rogatinskoy, Chelm (illegally) high schools. Since November 1939 was in hiding. In June 1941 he took part in the ad Act revival of the Ukrainian state in Kalush. During the Second World War, was a member of the OUN hiking groups in the south-west of Ukraine ( Vinnitsa , Odessa , Kherson , Dnipropetrovsk ). According to one version, directed Kherson regional wire SWNTs. Date and place of death is not known Bogdan: there is speculation that he was killed by the German occupiers in Kherson in 1943, according to other data, the brother of Bandera was killed a year later [103] .


Family Bander in the Will Zaderevatskoy. Left to right. Sitting: Andrey Bandera, Daria Pischinskaya, Rosalia Bandera (paternal grandmother). Standing: Marta Maria, Fyodor Davidyuk, Vladimir, Bogdan, Stepan, Oksana. Photos 1933
Sisters:
Marta Maria Andrey Bandera [RU] (1907-1982) - Member of the OUN in 1936, a teacher. Stryi graduate seminary. May 22, 1941 without trial was transported to Siberia . In 1960 he was removed from special settlements, but to return to Ukraine Bandera's sister was not allowed. In 1990, eight years after the death of Martha, Mary, her remains were moved to the city, and then reburied in a cemetery in Old Ugrinove [103] .
Vladimir Andreevna Bandar Davidyuk [RU] (1913-2001) - middle sister Bandera. After the death of his mother raised her aunt Catherine. She graduated from high school Stryj. In 1933, she married Theodore Davidiuk priest, accompanied him to the place of service in rural areas of western Ukraine, gave birth to six children. In 1946, her husband was arrested and later sentenced to ten years imprisonment and five years of imprisonment with confiscation of property. Time served in the Krasnoyarsk region , then in the Kazakh SSR . In 1956, was released in June of that year, returned to Ukraine, settling on one of the daughters. In 1995 she moved to her sister Oksana Stry with which she lived until her death in 2001 [103] .
Oksana Bandera [RU] (1917-2008) - the younger sister of Bandera. After the death of his mother raised her aunt Lyudmila. She graduated from high school Stryj. She worked as a teacher. In the night from 22 to 23 May was arrested along with her ​​sister Martha, Mary, and was transported to Siberia. In 1960 he was removed from special settlements. To Ukraine, Lviv, after a long break came July 5, 1989. Since 1995 - Honorary Citizen of sisters, where he lived until his death. Presidential Decree of 20 January 2005 was awarded the Order of Princess Olga III degree [103] .
Wife  - Yaroslav V. Bandera , née. Oparovskaya (1907-1977) - Member of the OUN in 1936. The daughter of a priest, chaplain CAA Oparovskogo Basil, who was killed in a battle with the Poles. She graduated from high school Kolomyia, was a student at the Faculty of Agronomy of the Lviv Polytechnic. In 1939, some time in the Polish prison. During the stay in Bandera camp serves as a link between him and the SWNTs. Shortly after the death of a spouse, in the fall of 1960, with children moved to Toronto , where she worked in various Ukrainian organizations. Died and was buried in Toronto, [103] .
Children:
Natalia Stepanovna Bandera (1941-1985), married Kuts. She studied at the universities of Toronto, Paris and Geneva. She married Andrew Kuts. Had two children: Sophia (born 1972) and Orestes (b. 1975) [103] .
Andrey S. Bandera (1946-1984). Member of a number of Ukrainian organizations in Canada. In the years 1976-1984 - editor of the English-language applications «Ukrainian Echo» to the newspaper "Gaumont Ukraine." Organizer of the mass demonstrations in front of the Soviet embassy in Ottawa in 1973. He was married to Mary, née. Fedorov. In marriage, had a son Stepan (born 1970) and daughter of Bogdan (born 1974) and Elena (born 1977) [103] .
Les Stepanovna Bandera (1947-2011 [104] ). She graduated from the University of Toronto . Worked as an interpreter for Ukrainian organizations in Canada, fluent in Ukrainian, English and German. Had no children. Until his death, lived in Toronto [103] .
Bandera raised their children in the same spirit in which he was raised. His eldest daughter Natalia was a member of the "layers", the son of Andrew and younger daughter Lesia - held at the Union of Ukrainian Youth [RU] (MSL). Often came to the Youth Camp MSA, where his daughter and son, the head of the OUN asked caregivers to those related to his children as well as to the other [105] . According to Yaroslava Stetsko, Bandera was very fond of his children. Son and daughter of Stepan Bandera after the death of his father learned his real name. Prior to this, she wrote Stetsko, "they go to school and thought they singed and not Bandera" [106] .
[ edit ] Personality. Evaluation

According to the Ukrainian philosopher and writer Peter Kralyuka , scientific biography Bandera there so far, and "valuable, non-engaged Party Content" There are very few [107] . "The problem is that in Ukraine there is a serious and recognized biography Bandera  - said Associate Professor of Political Science National University of "Kyiv-Mohyla Academy" Andreas Umland . - Much of the literature written about the Ukrainian nationalist Ukrainian nationalists. In turn, the lack of studies of people not involved in this ideology " [108] . Other claims against the author of biographical works about Bandera makes modern historian, head of the Academic Council of the Ukrainian " Research Center of the liberation movement [RU] " Vladimir Vyatrovich [RU] . He finds wrong is that most of the authors of "regurgitate the basic facts of his life," rather than to show "courage to infer from these facts," and "called hero hero" [109] .
According to contemporaries, Bandera was a well-read man - he preferred the historical literature and memoirs of political figures, including foreign ones - German, Polish, and technical journals. In addition, he had the ability to speak eloquently and convincingly, but at the same time able to listen, without interrupting him. Distinguished by a good sense of humor, he is particularly fond of listening to someone telling funny stories. At Bandera was, according to those who knew him Kazanovsky Bogdan, a phenomenal memory, he had a wide range of interests, trying to lead an active life, and all that interested him, had a complete picture [110] . "He knew how to be a good friend and a good boss' - recalled Nicholas Klimishin [111] . Among the members of the OUN Bandera preferred active, capable and hard-working, paying attention to the level of secondary education rights - so before you appoint someone to a senior position in the organization, he was trying to take some time, especially if he was not personally acquainted with the candidates. OUN leader characterized by high organizational skills, intuitive, prudence [112]  - "no doubt" Basil Cook called "the fact that the OUN under his [Bandera] leadership became a powerful political and military revolutionary force" [113] . Jaroslav Stetsko recalled that Bandera was a staunch disinterested: "I can not imagine that it has, for example, money, and his friends had" [110] .
According to historian Peter Bale, Bandera "was ready to die on the scaffold three times" and wanted to see the same willingness "to every Ukrainian" [114] . Each youth Bandera, OUN Gregory Miller called him "a man who all his essence completely paid service general and national cause," [115] . Deeply religious Greek-Catholic, he still never showed hostility toward the Orthodox Church [116] . "He Stepan Bandera was a very pious" - wrote about him Yaroslav Stetsko [117] . Vasyl Kuk noted that Bandera always believed in myself, "and this belief worked wonders," [118] . According Yaroslava Stetsko, he was not a pessimist and really look at things, could not find a way out of any situation [119] .
The former head of the OUN Sat and colleague Myron Bandera Matvieyko in his manuscript submitted to Soviet investigators in August 1951, wrote: "morality of Bandera very low" . From the testimony of Matvieyko that Bandera beat his wife and was "womanizer", characterized by greed ("literally shaking of the money"), and pettiness, was unfair to others, and used the OUN "exclusively for its own purposes" [120] . However, according to some historians, said Matvieyko be trusted. Thus, Professor Yuri Shapoval expressed his belief that the former head of the OUN Sat had to blacken Bandera under "pressure front" by the Soviet secret police, [121] , and the author of "Bandera: myths, legends and reality" Ruslan and does often assumed that on behalf Matvieyko did Soviet writers [122] .
Professor, Doctor of Sciences Anatoly Tchaikovsky, in an interview said that Bandera always "possessed extraordinary leadership ambitions" . This peculiarity Bandera wrote historian Peter knew him Baley [123] , and the OUN leader Dmitry Paliyeva [ru] called Bandera "freshman who dreams of becoming a leader and dictator" [80] . Indeed, according to the historian, Professor George Kasyanov , the OUN (b) established a cult of personality Bandera as a leader [64] . Abwehr Colonel Erwin Stolz, who was in charge of military intelligence for the work of Ukrainian Nationalists, Stepan Bandera described as a "careerist, a fanatic and a gangster," contrasting it with the "quiet, intelligent," Miller [124] . As "very stubborn and reckless in implementing their plans and intentions" Bandera man described in the aforementioned manuscript Matvieyko [120] . Vladimir Vyatrovich, in turn, acknowledged the evidence that Bandera was ambitious, as "believed in the crucial role of strong-willed individuals in history" and "a child preparing himself for a great mission," but at the same time was not an authoritarian leader. On the basis of documents and personal letters Bandera Vyatrovich concludes that he stood for the union representatives of various political forces in the Ukrainian nationalists, led by the principle of the majority, was a supporter of the democratic trends in program SWNTs [109] .
Many historians, such as Professor Anatoly Tchaikovsky [80] , a researcher from Hamburg Grzegorz Rossolinsky-Liberia and Hungarian historian Borbala Obrushanski [125] , according to Stepan Bandera, a supporter of fascism. The well-known American historian, professor at Yale University Timothy Snyder called Bandera "fascist hero" and supporters of "fascist ideas of Ukraine" [4] . "Approval (...) that Bandera - a fascist, is attracting the attention of the scandalous,  - at the same time, notes historian Vladislav Grinevich. - But if you approach the issue scientifically, is fascism - is one phenomenon, integral nationalism, to which the Bandera - Other, German National Socialism - is quite different. And all lumped together - Incorrect " [108] . Modern Ukrainian historian Yaroslav Hrytsak called Bandera romantic, growing up in the shadow of war and revolution, and who dreamed of revolution. "Bandera such nationalism wanted it: on the one hand - xenophobic, violent, radical, on the other - a romantic, heroic, handsome,  - shared Hrytsak in an interview with a Polish newspaper. - His main idea was a national revolution, national revival " [76] .
According to the modern Ukrainian historian and journalist Daniel Yanevskogo [RU] , Bandera did not play are for his leading role in the later nationalist underground and was "merely artificially stretched in the Ukrainian national movement" . Referring to some documents, he drew attention to the fact that the Ukrainian rebels called themselves not "Bandera" and "insurgents", "our boys" [126] .
[ citation needed ] The title of Hero of Ukraine



Postage stamp with a portrait of Stepan Bandera, released in 2009, the centenary of his birth


Banner "Bandera - our hero" at a football match, " Karpaty "(Lvov) -" Shakhtar "(Donetsk)
20 January 2010 , shortly before the end of his term, the President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko issued a decree for number 46/2010, under which the Bandera posthumously honored with the highest degree of difference of Ukraine - the title of Hero of Ukraine , with the wording "for the indestructibility of the spirit in the pursuit of national idea, heroism and self-sacrifice in the struggle for an independent Ukrainian state, " [127] . From myself Yushchenko added that, in his opinion, this event for many years waiting for millions of Ukrainians. The audience in the hall, in front of which the Head of State announced the decision to Yushchenko met with applause. The award was received from the President of Stepan Bandera's grandson [128] .
Assigning Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine caused mixed reactions and generated wide publicity both in Ukraine and abroad. February 17 2010 MPs European official expressed regret awarding Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine and urged President-elect Viktor Yanukovych Yushchenko's actions to revise [ 129] [130] . Yanukovych responded promise to take a decision for the Day of Victory, and the assignment to Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine called "resonance" [131] . Many representatives of the Ukrainian community noted mistaken ideas assignment Bandera heroic title by Yushchenko "the curtain" presidential term [132] . According to historian Timothy Snyder, awarding Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine "cast a shadow" on Yushchenko's political career [4] .
In Russia, the assignment Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine was perceived negatively. Deputy Speaker of the Federation Council , Yuri Vorobiev act Yushchenko called "Shame" and added: "If found out about our grandfathers and fathers, we would simply have turned over in anger in their graves," [133] , and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin suggested that "managers" color movement ", in fact, spit in the face to their political sponsors, issued a decree declaring Stepan Bandera a hero of Ukraine" [134] . With the negative comments made ​​to the decree and the Department of Press and Information Ministry of Foreign Affairs  - in a message action Yushchenko was called "odious event properties" [135] . With discontent things about Yushchenko's decree and some officials of Poland. The Minister of the Presidency of Poland Mariusz Gandzlik [ru] noted that Poland "bewildered accepted the decision of the President of Ukraine" because "for the Poles Stepan Bandera - an extremely controversial figure," [136] , and the former Prime Minister Leszek Miller called the assignment awards "man, actively collaborated with the Nazis, the creator of ideology and paramilitary units acting against the Poles and the Polish state, (...) Eastern politics symbolic funeral of President Lech Kaczynski," [137] . Glorification of Bandera condemned himself Lech Kaczynski . "Recent actions of the President of Ukraine directed against the historic process of dialogue and reconciliation. Current political interests won over the historical truth, " - said in a message posted on the official website of the head of state [138] . Stepan Bandera's grandson, in an interview admitted that the reaction of the Polish side, very surprised him. "I would like to remind the Poles that they created it Bandera" , - he said [139] . Ukrainian scholar and social activist Irina Farion noted that "the Polish assessment can not be objective, if only because we were in a state of war with Poland from the XIV to the XX century" [140] .
Condemned the assignment Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine made ​​the Simon Wiesenthal Center . In a letter to the Ambassador of Ukraine to the USA Oleh Shamshur representative of the organization, Mark Weitzman, expressed "deep disgust" at the "shameful" awarding Bandera, who was accused of collaborating with the Nazis [141] . A number of Ukrainian scientists and artists, among them - historians Vladislav Grinevich and Sergei Hmyrya [RU] , voted against the appropriation Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine, citing the fact that he has never been a citizen of Ukraine [132] .
2 April 2011 the Donetsk district court recognized Yushchenko's decree on awarding Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine illegally, formally referring to the fact that Bandera was not a citizen of Ukraine (by law a Hero of Ukraine can only be a Ukrainian citizen) [142] . The court's decision led to a support, and numerous protests in the Ukrainian society. Yulia Tymoshenko , commenting on the cancellation of the decree on awarding Bandera the title of Hero, accused the current government in the "repression (...) real heroes of Ukraine" [143] . Its outrage at the cancellation of the decree stated by representatives of the Ukrainian Association of Portugal , Spain , Italy, Greece and Germany [144] , the Ukrainian politician Irina Farion [140] , Oleg Tyagnibok [145] , Taras Stetskiv [RU] , Sergei Sobolev [146] , and also a former president of Ukraine Leonid Kravchuk [147] . Another ex-president Leonid Kuchma , however, said that for him the question of heroism Bandera there [148] .
The decision of the District Court of Donetsk negatively perceived and Viktor Yushchenko. April 12 , he appealed the Donetsk District Administrative Court, which do not, in his view, the requirements of the current legislation of Ukraine [149] . June 23 of the same, in 2010, the Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal upheld the decision of Donetsk Regional Administrative Court regarding the deprivation of Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine unchanged. The decision of the court of appeal may be appealed within a month in the Supreme Court of Ukraine , which was not done. A year later, on August 2 2011 , the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine finally upheld the Donetsk District Administrative Court on April 2, 2010, rejecting the appeals of a number of Ukrainian citizens, among whom were representatives of VO "Svoboda" , Viktor Yushchenko, the grandson of Stepan Bandera and others [150] .
[ edit ] Memory

[ edit ] Monuments and museums
Main article: Monuments to Stepan Bandera
As of September 2012 Stepan Bandera monuments can be found at Ukraine [151] . At the Ivano-Frankivsk region, monuments to Stepan Bandera installed in Ivano-Frankivsk (January 1, 2009, the centenary of Bandera) [152] , Kolomyia [RU] (August 18, 1991) [153] , Gorodenka (30 November 2008) [154] , Old villages Uhryniv (14 October 1990), the average Voloshin (January 9, 2009) [155] , Grabovka (12 October 2008), Nikitintsy (August 27, 2007) [156] and Uzin (October 7, 2007) [157] . It is noteworthy that the monument to Stepan Bandera in his homeland, in the Old Ugrinove twice undermined unknown - the first monument was blown up by December 30, 1990, June 30, 1991 it opened almost unchanged in the same place, and on July 10 of that year destroyed the monument again. August 17, 1992, during the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the UPA, the monument was finally restored [158] .
The first monument to Stepan Bandera in Lviv region was established in 1992 as sisters, in front of the school, where he studied [159] . Besides, there are monuments to Bandera in Lviv (13 October 2007) [160] , Borislav (October 19, 1997) [161] , Drohobych (October 14, 2001) [162] , Sambor (21 November 2011) [163] , the Old Sambor ( November 30, 2008) [164] , Dublyanah (October 5, 2002) [165] , Truskavets (October 19, 2010) [166] and a number of other settlements. In the Ternopil region monument to Stepan Bandera [ru] can be found in the regional center , as well as Zaleshchiki (October 15, 2006) [167] , Buchach (October 15, 2007) [168] , Terebovlya (1999), Kremenets (August 24, 2011) [169 ] , villages Kozovka (1992, the first in the area) Verbov (2003), got cold feet (2009) and in several other locations [151] .
Monuments to Stepan Bandera

Monument in Lviv  

Monument in Ternopil  

Bust in Berezhany  

Monument in Stryj  
The first-ever museum of Stepan Bandera, now known as the historical and memorial museum, began operating in 1992 at his home in Old Ugrinove [170] . Another museum opened Bandera January 4, 1999 in Dublyanah, where he lived for a while and studied [165] . At -Will Zaderevatskoy where Bandera and his family lived in 1933-1936, is now at the museum-estate [171] . October 14, 2008 Bandera museum was opened in Yagelnitse [172] , and January 1, 2010 Bandera Family Museum appeared in Stry [173] . In addition, in London, the Museum of the liberation struggle named Bandera, a significant part of which is devoted to the leader of OUN [174] .
[ edit ] Other


Street Stepan Bandera in Lviv at the intersection with the streets and Karpinski Konovalca
As of 2012, Stepan Bandera is an honorary citizen of Ternopil [RU] [175] , Ivano-Frankivsk, [176] , Lviv [177] , Coloma [178] , the Valley [179] , Luck [180] , Chervonohrad [181] , Terebovlya [182] , Truskavets Radehova [183] ​​, Sokal [184] , Stryi [190] , Morshina [191] . March 16, 2010 Bandera was awarded an honorary citizen Justa , but April 20, 2011 Khust district court overturned the decision to award the title [192] .
Streets named after Stepan Bandera is in Lviv (since 1991, the former World) in Ivano-Frankivsk [RU] (since 1991, the former Kuibyshev), in Kolomyia [RU] (since 1991, the former May Day), and other cities. In Ternopil there Ave Bandera [RU] (formerly Lenin Street). Since March 2012 the name of the award Bandera is established Lviv Regional Council [RU] [193] .
During the life of Stepan Bandera among UPA soldiers were walking tracks, where it was mentioned. Cornet UPA Gjøvik Ivan wrote in his diary about the rebel song, which was the line: "Bandera Way to Volya we'll show you / / C yogo order stanemo yak" stіy '" [194] , and smoking Maxim Skorupsky recalled that in the repertoire was Streltsi song , "Oh s-for horizontal sonce go ... in bіy us Bandera behavior" dedicated Bandera [72] . Dutch writer Rogier van Arda [ru] wrote the novel "Assassination" of the murder of Stepan Bandera, a Ukrainian director Alexander Yanchuk [ru] removed film " Atentat: Autumn Murder in Munich [RU] ", released in rent in 1995. Bandera role in "Atentate ..." sang the actor Jaroslav flour . Five years later, he also played the leader of OUN Yanchuk in the new movie " Invictus [RU] " [195] . The literature Bandera featured in novels such as " third card " Juliana Semenova and "Strong and lonely" Peter Kralyuka [196] .
Ukrainian nationalist organizations annually celebrate January 1 - the birthday of Stepan Bandera. 1 January 2013 torch march in Kiev, organized by VO "Svoboda" , brought together more than 3,000 participants. Similar events were also held in other cities of Ukraine [197] .
In 2008 historian Yaroslav Hrytsak noted that Bandera has "not expressly" in the Ukraine, and his figure is popular mainly in the west of the country [76] . However, in the same 2008 Bandera took 3rd place (16.12% votes) in the TV show " Great Ukrainians ", second only to Prince Yaroslav the Wise , and Nikolai Amosov [198] . In subsequent years, the cult of Bandera significantly spread to the East of Ukraine, which, according to Gritsak, shows a trend of recent years - the growth of Russian-Ukrainian nationalism. But Bandera is the historical figure who most deeply and consistently divide Ukrainians into two camps, and the fact that the line of division moved to the East, does this split the smaller and the more it does not lead to the disappearance of [199] .