to use 

Stepan Bandera leader of the terrorist organization in Poland, sentenced to death, since  the leader of the faction of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists closely cooperating with the Nazis, after the war, West German intelligence collaborator. Since  he lived in Germany under the name of Stephen Popiel.
You're wrong. Just Bandera faction of the OUN did not cooperate with the Nazis as closely as "melnykowcy". That attitude to the Germans was one of the main reasons for the split.
Another version states that he was murdered on Oct. ,  by members of the former group Theodor Oberlander, professor co-responsible for the massacre in Lviv. The reason for the murder was approaching the process Oberlander (), and the flag was to be damning witness for the prosecution.
It'
who confessed, who spoke to recently taking medication?
Please ask a question about a specific because of the wind from some shaky emotional? 
who confessed, who spoke to recently taking medication (oral or intravenous)?

Verifiability 

It might be worthwhile to recall here the main principles of verifiability of the information contained in Wikipedia:

Articles should contain only material published in reliable sources
People adding new material to an article should indicate a reliable source, otherwise each User can remove this material
The obligation to rely on reliable sources rests on adding new material, and not on those who wish to remove this material
Tal
what is about Trotsky and the cave-Rowecki? 

what's the comparison with R.Mercaderem? Insulting the memory of Trotsky by compiling the fascist murderer responsible for Volyn. The same is true of the Grot-Rowecki - so what that his or imprisoned Hitler, what does this have to do with it, respect!
Template 

Template {fact
Idol? 

The password is evident abuse, is given, he is an idol and are the source of one of them until you learn that
Flag as terrorist
Another Polish historians are of the opinion. Stepan Bandera person is assessed unambiguously.
- From the perspective of a Polish historian rating Stepan Bandera is simple: it was a terrorist, who was convicted in the State of the attack on the Polish Interior Minister Bronislaw Pieracki to life imprisonment - said dr. Grzegorz Motyka, a historian dealing with the history of Polish-Ukrainian relations. - He went out into the wild just because they broke the Second World War and the Polish authorities before the Germans have released prisoners. However, Ukrainians are looking at him as a man who sat Ukraine for free for many years, first in Polish prisons, and then in the Nazi concentration camp in Sachsenhausen. As a result, after the war in the U.S. are able to present themselves as victims of Nazism.
According to the historian, even by the standards of CNS, an organization that practices the ideology of integral nationalism, was the person closed to all forms of democracy. This resulted in internal divisions in the CNS.
Flag advocated in the 's for the intensification of terrorist activities and the use of individual terror. It is also worth noting that the same choice of victims, which had the effect of Bandera, was not accidental.
Fell victim to the CNS is not the Poles-NDs, who have watched with disgust the Ukrainians, but people looking for threads agreement with them. You can replace Tadeusz Hołwka, Piłsudczyk who tried to create a bridge of understanding between Poles and Ukrainians. He was a supporter of Eastern Galicia give some autonomy, which fully respected the rights of Ukrainians, including to a free cultural development. That is why he became a victim of assassination - OUN members did not agree to any compromise solutions, seeking to ensure that before the Ukrainians was only one way: uncompromising armed struggle.
- When it comes to Stepan Bandera Poles tend to have the eyes Volhynia and Eastern Galicia and murders that are being committed by the UPA - explains dr. Grzegorz Motyka. - Even though he immediately Flag is not responsible for the slaughter of Volhynia, because then he was imprisoned in a German concentration camp, is undoubtedly a moral responsibility because they committed crimes created by the OUN faction, whose members are from his name were called "banderowcami".
As it is written, what is the ratio of the part of Ukrainians, it should be mentioned as it is evaluated by the Poles, to wit Motyka. 
It is quoted above. 

The current contents of password suggests that as a consequence of being in prison for involvement in the assassination, Flag is considered a hero by some Ukrainians. What is corruption of course, because this is also related to the concentration camp. It is also in this case to announce that sociological studies show that when it comes to sympathy Ukrainians, Stepan Bandera occupies the last place along with Petlura and Stalin. This information should be placed at the end rather than in the middle of the biography as concerns the assessment of the present time. Another issue is the lack of information about the perception of him by the Poles, there seems to be an appropriate quote Mattocks, who gave up. It should also be mentioned for purposes of terror, which in the 's drew Flag. Since his name was determined OUN-B and UPA 
Popularity 

As for the popularity of Bandera, then he took th place in the competition " legends. People who created the Lions". Besides, in the "Great Ukrainians" took rd place, and that as a result of fraud.  What to Bandera, the fraction was established only in , and from the mid-s Flag in jail. So I beg you 
Dispute about who wins and who does not, does not belong to us. If the information is unreliable remove it. As for the naming is just mean, how BIG impact on Bandera nationalists had an operation before his arrest and after release (and before being sent to the camp). Therefore, you must clearly write about this, because the current password can not explain. I will try to develop and propose minor changes (for mention of terror Bandera, information about the perception of it in Ukraine and Poland). I remind you that the password encyclopaedic and not a place to conceal the significant events of his life. 
"Flag Terror" sounds scary. You will have to sweat to prove this thesis. 
Changes in the article 

I propose to change the existing header:
Ukrainian nationalist leader, head of the National Executive of the CNS, one of the leaders of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, since  the leader of the faction (with sometimes a separate organization) Bandera (OUN-B).
Flag is not a candidate in the parliamentary elections, he was a member of a political party, do not strive for a peaceful transfer of power, was the head of the organization, which means the terrorist attacks hit the state structure. Therefore, the need to improve the existing categories.
Furthermore, in section , paragraph biography sformułowałbym precisely:
The organizer of terrorist against the Polish state and the Soviet Union, including attacks - in , an official of the Soviet consulate in Lviv - Majłowa and in  the Interior Minister of the Second Republic, Bronislaw Pieracki, for which he was sentenced in  to death, commuted to life imprisonment after the amnesty.
You can also mention:
In , he founded Bezpeky Service which has many murders of Poles, Ukrainians and Jews.
He is credited with the ideological foundation for the genocide of Polish and Jewish population in order to liberate Ukraine.
Stepan Bandera in Munich lived in the house, with Kreittmayrstrasse  as a Polish citizen, concealed under the name of Stephen Popiel.
Please stay. - Paweł  You can also add that he assigns orders
Notes 

My comments on the proposal:
Bandera was a leader of Ukrainian nationalists, but one of several leaders of the rest of the match.
He was a member of the CNS, illegal, but a functioning political party. Alternatively, you can add a category terrorists, but that is entitled and Jozef Pilsudski.
With the consent of the attacks, but he was a co-organizer, not the organizer.
He was co-founder, and not the founder (along with Łenkawskim) SB. Who assigns the ideological foundation ... ? This is nonsense. That's right, he was living in Munich, etc.
It's probably enough to start with. 
You underestimate the Bandera :) His name is called the branch of the CNS, in Poland as determined by members of Bandera and the OUN UPA, in a concentration camp prisoners sat in Hitler's most important, erected a monument to him in Lviv, this year is the year of Bandera, Ukraine, and Mr. sets him as "one of the few leaders", "co-organizer", "co-founder". How simple :) Here is my proposal:
one of the main leaders of the Ukrainian nationalists, the head of the National Executive of the CNS, one of the leaders of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, since  the leader of the faction (with sometimes a separate organization) Bandera (OUN-B).
As for the rest of the comments, the purpose of the party is to gain power, and the central nervous system does not even try to gain power by legal means, in advance advocated against the policies of the Polish-Ukrainian agreement. UNDO can be called a party. If you want to add a category terrorists Pilsudski go ahead. Good luck :) As for the organization of the attacks was the main inspiration and principal as the head, so I need something else to put it. I remind you that since I became chief EK Flag CNS activity gained momentum and effectiveness.
Customer (inspiration?) And co-organizer of terrorist actions against the Polish state and the Soviet Union, including attacks - in , an official of the Soviet consulate in Lviv - Majłowa and in  the Interior Minister of the Second Republic, Bronislaw Pieracki, for which he was sentenced in  to death, commuted to life imprisonment after the amnesty.
Also, you can make sentences
In , along with with Stepan Łenkawskym founded Bezpeky Service, which has a number of murders of Poles, Ukrainians and Jews.
Stepan Bandera in Munich lived in the house, with Kreittmayrstrasse  as a Polish citizen, concealed under the name of Stephen Popiel.
This is not surprising. Stepan Bandera throughout life (beyond childhood, when he was a citizen of Austria-Hungary) was formally Polish citizenship. Name "Popiel" under which - for fear of the KGB and SB - lived in Munich was false, but the legal citizenship. Also spoke perfect Polish, though - polityczych reasons - avoid official speeches in that language.

Notes II 

Should be distinguished - before the war was one of several leaders of the CNS, since  the leader of one of the two main factions.
CNS wanted to gain power, but starting in the election (because no one would not registered), but on the basis of the creation of the Ukrainian population of Galicia.
Certainly he was a good organizer, and indeed during his direct executive action taken on speed. Rather, inspirer and organizer.
In , along with with Stepan Łenkawskym founded Bezpeky Service. Do not exactly know how many nationalities made the murder, so it is no fun in the exchange. Anyway, for those interested - you have to click and read the article about SB.
Actually lived under a false name at that address.
So much for the comments. 
Flag a slaughter Volhynia 

I think that you can not charge for the slaughter Volhynian Bandera. From -September  was in prison, then at liberty to July , then again in a concentration camp until the end of . As you may be responsible for the carnage of  Volhynian? He directed her in Sachsenhausen? 
Mr. Paul, do not be pushed sucks 
Clearly it is written by Motyka that it is a moral responsibility, please carefully read 
You might as well accuse Bohdan Khmelnytsky of moral responsibility. 
Is it Motyka also said it was the Ukrainian Hołwko? 
Please add info about Bandera after WW II. His participation in the organization of the CNS and the collapse of the organization. 
It should be. For now corrected forged by Mr quote. 
In fact, false, sat three years in the Polish prison and three years in a special ward in Sachsenhausen convenient. It is better to write for many years because it is more dangerous. 
Rested in a hut with Grot-Rowecki. 
Blaming him for responsibility of Volyn massacre applications require some documents, the relationship of people doing his bidding, but I know nothing teeth in the time of imprisonment had any orders seem. Inczaej there would be no point in his imprisonment. Direct responsibility falls. Require a demonstration of moral responsibility to demonstrate and promote the idea of ​​wasting large population of Polish descent on Ukrainian territory. 
Only the tip-Rowecki Flag was murdered and released it to accurately illustrates the difference in treatment. What the above observations it is clearly written that the direct responsibility falls, it's about the organization and the creation of an organization that was one of the purposes of ethnic cleansing was the future of Ukraine with the Poles. Already on the first conference in Vienna, the resolution was taken. 
It should be a little poduczyć 
Ask Wulfstan - because he is the most knowledgeable - what was Sachsenhausen - Zellenbau. Something similar to the Political Department at Auschwitz. Imprisonment in jail. In the same sitting prof. Carolina Lanckorońska in Ravensbruck.Nie was no difference in treatment. NB last witness to life's Cave come from inmates - Ukrainians.
With a cell you can move straight into the wall.
Andros
PS. I do not know how you can charge for the decisions taken by someone else, a man who sits in a cage in Berlin without any contact with the world ;). Collective responsibility?
Andros
Pawle Lord: let me quote you the document in which it is contained information that I have on the CNS conference in Vienna decided to "the murder of Poles in Ukraine". Reference Poliszczuk and Siemaszko, who did not provide footnotes to his "theses", which means that you just came up with it yourself, or have relied on each other, which also means Scam-invoked for someone this "fact" the ubzdurał . As Ukrainian nationalists in  intended to "exterminate the Poles," why they did not have in ? Or ? Why wait until the  years? Two years previous were best-Poles by "option martyrdom" were supposed to be unarmed and without partisan, so sufficient saws and axes, and according to the same option Ukrainian had "intentionally" use "of such weapons" instead of firearms. Why have not made the slaughter when they were Nachtigall and Roland battalions and support of the Germans? According to me you just prints nonsense. - Mark
Homosexuality Flags 

Bandera was a practicing homeseksualistą - if you can add it to Wikipedia?
Neutral point of view? 

in this spirit, I suggest to change the password, Adolf Hitler, left: German policies, etc. in place of a criminal. write "controversial".
User Birczanin 

His tailstock are the Ukrainian and Ergo (check his work!) Is doing everything to bleach genocide under the sign of CNS / UPA. Wikipedia is a free encyclopedia, objective, and not private grange master Birczanina.
Theorist of Ukrainian nationalism? 

That's not true 
Mr. Paul did not think I read 
The source: The issue came into the work of Ukrainian nationalism theorists of the first half of the twentieth century, the processes of nation-building, considerations of political identity. These are the works of Stepan Bandera. 
I ask, then, to give a title of the work. 
All of his work or the works are in the Anthology of the source says, you can buy and find out how you're interested. This Ukrainian source. If they call themselves Ukrainians Ukrainian nationalist Bandera theorist I do not know what to pick on. Have a look to the Ukrainian Wiki to the header: ідеоло українськоо національноо руху ХХ століття. 
Bu
Of course, they are not infallible, he cautiously walk up to the former Ukrainian sources, but since the Poles and Ukrainians claim that the flag was a nationalist is to mention that in this case is that the source was a theoretician, apparently the work presented Flags that are not widely known. 
If presented, they are more widely known. 
Sure
Supplement art 

Ipek one was right in the article no information about the key role in the creation of Bandera OUN-B, as well as what the OUN-B "made". I think that one sentence is also in the header like in biogramie Adolf Hitler
Choppers should be supplemented with information about the activities of Bandera in exile.
You can add info about a hero of Ukraine by adding some reaction in Ukraine, which were very much alive: the nationalists praise from the condemnation of the East. 

An attempt to insert an edit pseudowojny important info on the basis of journalism press or TV 

While in the camp, according to Ewa Siemaszko, flag had the status of a special prisoner - he could communicate with his co-workers . Also, according to Dr. Andrew Zieba, at least until the first quarter of , Bandera was able to contact his organization .
Again, Press Releases sensation of staying in Sachsenhausen-Zellenbau.
Andros
You can call the dr. Finches from the University and ask why, "says such nonsense." Information about the special status of Bandera is not new to the facts. Except that does not allow this information to yourself. Still look for another source. 
I will only add that the text is written in compliance with all the rules of Wikipedia are given the names of people who say so in the spirit of NPOV. The fact Bandera release from the camp only confirms these facts. If you have sources that claim that the flag was persecuted in the camp or did not have a special status and not present them vandalises text. 
Flag sat in an isolated Zellenbau (prison camp), together with Rowecki, Daladier, Thalmann as one of the so-called. Sonderhaftlinge (special prisoners). They were all "special prisoners". Most went into the wild, some of the wall (Rowecki, Thalmann).
And no revelations and legends things exactly as they are known and described. Without revelation particularly telling about the fact that he was in Sachsenhausen and Thälmann. This is not true. Thälmann throughout the period of the war he was detained in prison in Bautzen (Bautzen), from where it was transported to Buchenwald Turyndze and killed in the summer of . The special status of Bandera - and quite mild treatment of him - swiadc'ryzy also the fact that since . participated in the training of soldiers' Einheit Friedenthal, "which was founded at the initiative of the SS, to compete with the Abwehr - dotyczczasowym patron of the CNS - which belonged to the Wehrmacht.
Andros
Andro
I do not just delete the information about the status of prisoner of special, only for the two sources provides additional information about the rights of Bandera. As Dr. UJ could say the same time communicate with co-workers to be considered this info. And there's no revelation. I'm looking for additional sources of this information, which is fairly common knowledge. 
Th
I think it will be either a lapsus lingue as the "pacification village near Bochnia" "back on track"  Division of the SS, or in terms of co-workers with whom you sat in Sachsenhausen.
Andros
But Stepan Bandera - the beginning of the war collaborated with the Germans - during the biggest wave of killings was in the Nazi concentration camp of Sachsenhausen. Germany thus punished him for declaration of independence of Ukraine. - Of course, these events directly, could not direct. But it prepared the ideological ground for their creation. The organization, led, had in their total program assumptions depolonizację areas where hundreds of years Poles lived next door to the Ukrainians. I have never distanced himself from the ideology. Even staying in the camp, he was deprived of information because he had a special prisoner status - had contact with associates located in the wild. You could say that his men murdered Poles with his name on his lips. In a macabre way murdered six members of my family.
UPA lives and poisoning the minds of - This is the source of encyclopaedic?
Andros
↑ Ewa Siemaszko, UPA lives and poisoning the minds of

Intervie
And it's for Election would be ok? What is important is who he says and what he says. A Siemaszko is an expert on this subject. As for the lapses that Andros easily been forgotten as reported "facts" of Isakowicz blindly, even though the book does not read and add something different than Isakowicz claimed. Lapsus year :) 
First, no innuendo - I just look at the debate Ethnic Cleansing in Eastern Galicia - it was presented by Fr. Isakowicz several cases of allegations against priests in the Greek Catholic archdiocese in , where he stubbornly wykreślałeś info that .% is a small number.
Secondly, Ewa Siemaszko is a documentary and not a professional historian and co-authorship of the fact gathering and develop a set of relationships for limited territorially and temporally not clear about the fact that science is the authority on all matters concerning Polish-Ukrainian relations in the twentieth century,
Thirdly, newspaper types "fact", "Super Express" and online "boxes", etc.. by definition, are not a source of encyclopaedic
Fourth, for the relevant facts Interviews with the press are generally not a reliable source, unless the facts are confirmed elsewhere in publications compact.
And that was that.
Andros
Nowhere in the rules does not say that Wikipedia can not be used out of the box. If it wypowiadałby to a recognized specialist meets this info. The fact that contact with the surrounding Bandera confirms historian from the University. Thirdly, the Greek Catholic priests wrote the number taking part in the anti-Polish actions were minor, limited to a few well-known cases. Which is obviously not true, this type of formulation Isakowicz never uses, Wlczańska well. It is plain OR without zaglądnięcia to zarefowanych sources that stoczyłeś nielichą little war timeline and what should be banned. 
Well, again, not true - because unlike you do not practice NPA Provides quotes and quotations. It was not a quote, just a simple statement of fact based on the quoted source. And this is - Number of Greek Catholic priests involved in the anti-Polish actions were minor, limited to a few well-known cases - it's true, but that is not a quote. everyone can check in the discussion.
Well, this method of moving the discussion - without interruption call for blocking debater.
Andros
Oh, and "simple statement of fact" that never existed, because no source is not limited to the participation of several Greek-Catholic priests. Brilliant as for someone who requires a scientific publication, page numbers, ISBN.
Moving by the way is that the ranks of the defense taking Bandera in Poland is rapidly closing, who knows, maybe you were just you and Birczanin :) After I read that GW Wojciechowski criticized Yushchenko for the honor Bandera, Wujec considers this a bad decision and Poland are to be protests'm getting closer to that sentence.
The truth will always win Androsia road. Also in Ukraine, which as you can see it is already on the right track. 
takin
I resent the insinuation ad personam. After that, you know (with TV) that Copernicus was a woman, and Elvis is alive.
Andros
Source of TV, boxes, Super Express 

Generall
And in the Super Express, Boxes, and other publications such quote from WP: WER:
Articles should be based on reliable, independent reputable sources, to ensure accurate checking of the site's facts. The research topics are recommended sources of publications that have passed the review process.
Abou
Particularized TV program information. 
It does not change anything - the source is in writing and no TV or Pudelek
We have a different perspective on this issue of Loraine. Naming historian poodle is probably beyond the standard Wikietykiety 
Do you know from when I was in Sachsenhausen Flag? Yes or no?
Andros
Yes, on September , I read it from the article. Just what does this have to do with the removal of your expression serious historian. 
No, you're wrong and do not enter the mistake others. A statement on TV is not the source of the jet.
Andros
Read Loraine entry: In general I do not mind the information given to the TV, because I believe that Zieba know what to say, but falls more detail this footnote (what program, etc.) 
Wikipedia is not a box. It is a source of writing?
Andros
Agre
If no source Andros Flag indicating that he could not be contacted, it can be added with a note view ... etc. The editorial cooperation should look like, not just rewertowanie and rewertowanie. 
Short question: since when (date) SB was Zellenbau and what are the sources that can be (no matter what language
READ.
Is it a precise and exhaustive verifiability issue?
:
 seconds shutter Courier local television in Krakow, on the occasion of the race bike is a little too little to the source 

 seconds shutter Courier local television in Krakow, on the occasion of the race bike is definitely not enough for the source of a serious issue. Doubters please watch this Courier Television TVP Krakow, Krakow Chronicle and the answer as to whether this can be standard encyclopedic source.
WP: WER bows. It is printed on a standard source of research.
Andros
Loraine already answered you that this information meets the standards of Wikipedia, and should be. I do not know what you call pseudowojnę about it. 
According to the discussion I put a template that is necessary in the source's usual standard.
Andros
It does not make sense, is the source of this information. Rather, fit the template of the confirmation of this information, the question is whether it is a. 
please not to delete this sentence, but rather look around for materials, which can also be quoted in the subject line
- Above. A first there is another template,  issue of television as a source of speed in this case is a detailed discussion - it is only a source that Dr. A Chaffinch said something.
Andros
You're kidding, "said something", he said something very important and as a historian should this information be considered. Semashko said the same thing. 
I'm not kidding, I say, and I expect the source of facts - scientific publications in print (or electronic). A more interesting examples I can cite the opinion of serious historians in press statements that are marked as unverified hypothesis. And also it is very important hypothesis (eg Marian Buczek (Communist) as an agent of the Polish police, or George Czeszejko-Sochacki as a Polish intelligence agent (II branch of the General Staff).
But the hypothesis notes as documentary hypothesis until a thorough, scientific verification.
Thus the principle of WP: WER
Andros
Finch hypothesis but does not express well-known statement. 
Comrad
Andros
Sociological Group "Rating" 
Who is this? And if we publish articles every week exit-polls?
Andros (Talk) :,  March 
Do not overdo it, it was already discussed what they think the Poles, PE, councilors Ukrainian, Yushchenko, etc., but it is important to show what they think of the ordinary Ukrainians. From what I have twice done research on this and came out the same result twice. It shows that the opinion of Ukrainians is a constant and almost clear. It is worth to mention, just one sentence. 
That's who it is, it was worth it to find (if they are credible 
Repeal of Yushchenko's decree 

Title Bandera a hero of Ukraine has been received, it does not posidał Ukrainian citizenship:
Without infoboksu 

Detention - 

No additional resources have not noticed. In addition to what is attempt to insert the "UPA" the art of Bandera, who was then () in the insulator in Sachsenhausen?
Andros
It's Take a thoroughly. I've added a pdf from the yadvasem. 
About educational sites on the Internet for ever moving forward.
Can I ask for a source of scientific printed: author, title, page, quote?
I cordially greet:
Andros
It zarefowane in the second sentence, the second source, except that there are three independent sources indicate Bandera contacts with colleagues outside the camp. Your behavior is outrageous, rewertujesz first and then come up with questions. 
Cited page is an anonymous part of education. Please scientific source.
source of scientific printed: author, title, page, quote? Is it a requirement in such a delicate matter exaggerated?
There is nothing has changed since that template insertion.
Dify:
 

Andros
Here and Tadeusz Piotrowski, Poland's Holocaust, ,  
Please do not change the fact that his sources are. In addition, the title of Bandera received. 
All inmates have the right to Zellenbau packages and the press, also used this pan Rowecki. Probably why so consistently changes the content you view. What's the title of Hero of Ukraine, the decision of the court was challenged because no country is allowed to ensure that the district court canceled the decision of President of the State. 
My version also takes into account 
It turned out that at least a dozen people have received the title unlawfully. Among other things, the soldier-Ukrainian, clogging the Soviet flag on the Reichstag, which has never had a Ukrainian citizenship. 
It has nothing to do with it. We are interested in the facts, since anyone taken the title of a court decision is not a hero and that's it. However, you can actually wait for the yet to become final. 
Opariwska 

Genitive, accusative: Oparowską.
Andros
Biography from Yad Vashem and the educational television interview to the Courier Zięby 

After the German invasion of the Soviet Union, Flag's Representatives Declared the establishment of an independent Ukrainian government in LVOV on June , . The Germans were completely opposed to this, so they deported to Sachsenhausen Flag. He kept in contact with his Comrades, and was finally released in September . He led the CNS until his assassination in .rdło-Biography: Stepan Bandera, Yad Vashem educational portal
home page on the portal lexicon
Comment has been already mentioned. The statements in a television Courier Zięby link TVP Krakow Krakow, Krakow Chronicle is dead (headed to the home page center of Krakow TVP). Popular biography does not contain data to be treated as a source of detailed case.
It is a source of scientific printed as previously signaled anyway.
Andros
Russian tabloid 

Анатоли ЧАЙКОВСКИЙ: "Бандера и Шухеич были аентами итлероских спецслужб, и этим се сказано" .
It seems that for a few months can not be found in Polish historiography quote in support of the thesis, if you need to go to the Russian tabloids from eastern Ukraine.
Neither the text nor the authority of science.
We look forward to a source of scientific printed confirmation of a particular fact.
Andros
«В КОНЦЛАГЕРЕ БАНДЕРУ КОРМИЛИ ПО ЭСЭСОВСКОМУ РАЦИОНУ»
- Карательны полк бандероце отпраили  Белоруссию, а Бандеру -  концлаерь Заксенхаузен.
- Зучит мрачно, но для Бандеры  этом лаере се было далеко не так фатально, как для соетских оеннопленных. Только   оду из них расстреляли челоек . В последующие оды боцо и командиро Красно Армии подерали дичашим пседомедицинским экспериментам, так что из  тысяч челоек до конца оны дотянула еда ли полоина.
- Бандера сидел чуть ли не  одном бараке с сыном Сталина Якоом. Помню назание одно из неданих стате - "Там, де мордуася Бандера".
- Что касается "мордуання» Бандеры  Заксенхаузене, то, как и Якоа Сталина, ео поместили  особы блок «А». Туда заключали ысокопосталенных члено еропеских праительст, изестных политико, которых немцы обмениали на соих пленных. Там же находились наиболее ценные коллаборационисты, кто сотрудничал с итлероцами, но ременно оказался не у дел, например, "ласоцы". Мноо лет спустя лондонская "Тамс» описала услоия,  которых сын Сталина содержался месте с племянником Молотоа и еще четырьмя британскими летчиками: "Помещение было просторное, с остино, думя спальнями и думя уборными". Почти что номера не  само плохо остинице. Но русские и анличане не поладили. После одноо из унизительных для Якоа скандало он бросился на лаерное ораждение, караульны застрелил ео, после чео еще и замкнулась электрическая цепь, пропущенная по колюче проолоке. При жизни Иосифа Сталина анличане и американцы тщательно скрыали причины ибели Якоа о избежание ухудшения отношени СССР и Анлии.
Видимо, Бандера, Стецько, а позднее помещенные туда же Мельник с жено и Бульба-Бороец, истинны создатель УПА, жили не  худших апартаментах, чем те, которые описаны  "Тамс". Они находились под опеко Международноо Красноо Креста, сободно перемещались по территории лаеря, питались по эсэсоскому рациону, получали от родстеннико продоольстенные посылки и деньи. Так что бросаться на колючую проолоку под ысоким напряжением у них не было ни причин, ни желания. Бульба-Бороец споминал: «В депозите мы имели деньи, и у нас была озможность покупать" Винницкую махорку ".
- Даже махорку! Интересно, а к кофе по утрам приучали?
- Не исключено. В литературе можно стретить упоминание о том, что солдатам и офицерам СС реулярно ыдаали ампулы кофеина, из-за чео они станоились кофеманами. Подпитыали кофе и «стукаче» из числа оеннопленных-предателе. На расстоянии  метро от Заксенхаузена находился замок Фриденталь, а  нем - школа аентурно-диерсионных кадро ОУН (б). Через инструктора школы Бандера отдаал приказы подчиненным, и немцы этому не препятстоали.
В Германии и сечас жиет быши абероски офицер Дитрих Витцель. Для моео документальноо фильма об ОУН и УПА съемочная руппа записала с ним интерью. Он подтердил, что Бандера и Стецько "были размещены на особом участке, де услоия содержания отличались  лучшую сторону, чем на остально территории концлаеря ... Сязь ОУН с ермахтом, хотя и не так актино, как ранее, продолжалась ".
Бандеру, уляшео по Берлину, однажды останоила полиция, но он предъяил естапоское удостоерение, и ео блаополучно отпустили. Это похоже на «мордуання"? 
And so it BTW Where is there to confirm the thesis of the paragraph? Because somehow I can not decipher.
Andros
Here: На расстоянии  метро от Заксенхаузена находился замок Фриденталь, а  нем 
And where is the source of this information? Like this:
Затем Бандера из Кракоа координироал заброску диерсионных рупп  расположение УПА. Кода соетские оска зяли Крако  кольцо, Бандеру по личному приказу Гитлера ыез оттуда Отто Скорцени.
Another "revelation" historic. Flag coordinated discharge from Krakow diversionary groups and activities UPA. In January , on Hitler's personal order has been taken out of the boiler by Otto Skorzennego Krakow. Mystery of the twentieth century.
It's probably called a service (disinformation) of the Board and the KGB.
Not only write with reference to the newspaper "Gordon Boulevard."
Andros
Wha
I refer to the Management I. For now, we do not have any direct specific sources in addition to the above. sensation of the twentieth century. Bandera Skorzenny evacuated from Krakow in January ? Instructor "subversive espionage school staff CNS (b)" of the castle was a courier Flag Friedethtal sitting in Zellenbau in Sachsenhausen. It's nice to know. It is where. Is the Flag, and the instructor, and "by whom". And who, when, and who led the "school of espionage-sabotage personnel OUN (b)" in , the castle Friedenthal.
It would be good to see the source. Or enter immediately with reference to the newspaper "Gordon Boulevard."
Regards:
Andros
However
Lord edition, which is the restoration of the thesis (for today without sources) - nothing. However, quoted (as the source), the text contains a number of disinformation (pseudoinformacji), the source of which was a KGB disinformation section and do not have any confirmation in the scientific literature or in the documents.
Quoted interview tabloidzie rubs a grotesque moments (as pointed out above, see Skorzenny-Flag-Krakow), and not a source of encyclopaedic.
It is necessary to print the source of scientific confirmation of a particular fact. I do not think it is a requirement overdone, especially when biogramie arousing such controversy.
I think you need a minimum distance to the sources and their contents?
Sincerely:
Andros
So we have Dr. Zieba, Yad Vashem and Dr. Czajkowski 
At the moment we have nothing: statement for Dr. Zięby canceled Courier, indeed is not a source of scientific, educational portal Yad Vashem writes, "He kept in contact with his Comrades," (kept in touch with his comrades) - what does it mean - God knows
And who is dr. Tchaikovsky and what is the source of "Walking Gordon"?
Standartenfuhrer Stirlitz peace prevented separatist allies of the Third Reich. Source: Seventeen moments of spring.
Andros
The source added. EOT. 
Detention 

This edition was correct, and I see no reason for its disposal. I have one basic question 
I have a question in relation to the latest edition 
The first branches of the OUN-UPA prior to SD in October , the UPA as such 
I think it's a ridiculous source 
Nonsens
Everything has been given about, in other Wikipedias, the same position is the same reefing, the collective work of branded institutes do not mention the author. 
Why not just give the exact quote in footnote three to four propositional relating to the case (may be in Ukrainian) and the name of the author of the article in a collective work, not to create the impression (perhaps mistaken) that it is a prescription for free knowledge of content and without regard for the problem. Can you ask for a quote?
Andros
Because it Оранізація українських націоналісті і Українська постанська армія. Інститут історії НАН України.  is exactly that - ask for a quote confirming the thesis.
Andros
Well, corrected according to the source - I read it and I would suggest reading instead of copying from somewhere else.
Andros
Please read what was reported as allegedly read the source, and what is in the footnote and not wklejki.
Andros
Well, you did not have this book in my hand - I do not want to call it by name.
Andros
Paweł. As you enter ref no reading and catch you on this, at least do not go in zaparte. No comment.
Andros
I resent that this type of innuendo, but you will not have to have books are pdfs. Here is an excerpt that was sent to me: Наприкінці  Є.Стахі приіз з Берліна М.Лебедю таємну інструкцію ід С.Бандери. В цьому документі члени прооду застеріались "не проадити ніяких акці проти німці-антинімецькі иступи шкідлиі» і також наолошуалося "треба напраити українсько-німецьки стосунки" This is further confirmation already from  sources that Flag had contacts with the OUN-B, even this This confirms what paste. 
Summarize sources:  Semashko said in an interview contact the OUN-Bandera B  Chaffinch the same. rd [Http://www.yadvashem.org/odot_pdf/Microsoft% Word%  -% .pdf Yadvashem. th Ukrainian source: Оранізація українських націоналісті і Українська постанська армія. Інститут історії НАН України. , writes about the directives from Bandera, which carried Stachiw. Need I say more? 
It's not just the fact innuendo - have not read the book, on request you could not give her a bibliographic description or a quote on page  there is only information about the transfer at the end of  from Bandera grypsu from Stachiwa memories and nothing more. Then the flag was placed under house arrest in Berlin and not in Sachsenhausen. Give false reefs, give the statement here:
Everything has been given :: ok, in other Wikipedias, the same position is the same reefing, the collective work of branded institutes do not mention the author.
Which proves that you have not read the text, which is powoływałeś. And yet the power of restoring the text without coverage. Do not read too pdfu, because there is a full Send Bibliographic. I just faked ref.
Andros
Right
Not understand. The last two editions of Paul, removed by Androsa related to the fact that the Flag utzrymywał contacts while in camp with companions S. (in default of the CNS?), Yes, but they were not linked by Kuczynski page , and by the Yad Vashem according to me where it says exactly what Andros removed: "The Germans were completely opposed to this, so they
Flag deported to Sachsenhausen. He kept in contact with his Comrades, and was finally released in September . "
I checked all the entry  with a link 
If it is the same scientific standards as in the case of the relationship Stachiwa cited by Professor Ukrainian Academy of Sciences and the specific period of stay in Bandera and Stecki Sachsenhausen - it'll put yourself first. It is obvious that the primary source of information in such a case may only be a / sender grypsu or companion, b / receiver, c / courier. Since the organization of communication with the insulator Zellenbau secret messages in Sachsenhausen would be no mean feat, no one would be interested to hide this fact, if he had a place (especially since the content of the correspondence would have been reported after only).
If such a specific source will appear, repeat, I will introduce them to the article, as well as information Stachiwa. Today we do not have such a source.
Greetings to all:
Andros
Yad Vashem is not a small group of hobbyists boys without education, there also are working prof., Sometimes they were Ukrainian Ak. Sciences :) What I mean is that it is not the source of a tabloid or even GW, a scientific institution and closely related to the topic. So the removal of ... hm. As for the credibility of Stachiwa - the mere fact that prof. UAN has published a courier does not automatically give it a superiority over other sources (I mean methodology, the same relationship does not refute, I do not care). If this prof. did something more (research), which by several sources confirmed the truth of the relationship, that's another thing. Example - is extensive work on partyzancce UPA and related (unless under the age of ), probably Choppers (in any case, a professional historian specializing in, browsed in a bookstore, so sorry for the uncertainty), which cites reports from the period of the UPA after  V  of the Soviet Union. UPA reports a large force that was surrounded by the Soviet division, subject to ostrzałowi long artillery bombardment and several szturmom samolotowemu that said, according to a report by killing a large number of Soviet fantasy. Then he struck, broke the Soviet defenses, killing another and left in a safe place, without any losses throughout this battle. Each party zawyżała War II enemy losses, minimizes his own, but nobody lied so abysmally stupid way. And this is not propaganda poster, but the report, theoretically having an UPA command give you an idea what the situation is. And now, if such a document or even publish the entire UAN prof. Assoc. it is to be credible? This is the most reliable evidence of the level of these prof., If in addition to publications, try to build on the constructive applications. Anyway, I do not know why the opinions of Russian prof. Assoc. or Israel would be worse than Ukraine? The thesis that Russian scientists are on the bar KGB, is just as bad (?) As that propagandzistami zachodnioukraińscy are not objective scientists. Another thing - the fact that according to Bandera after the war, you had no reason to hide any shares a connection with the flag in the insulator, but on the contrary should be proud of, because it's a brilliant success. So if you do not speak, but they have reason to be proud of, that is, they do not set up. Not necessarily. For example, the establishment of communication transmitter could be possible thanks to further cooperation with one of the branches of the Abwehr, etc. having an interest in the use of Bandera in case of problems, and certainly not with a mind to calm anti-German sentiment Flag of the western compatriots. Today collaboration with the Nazis, even if successful, is not a reason to glory, so you do not have to have a reason to spread the word. So thy reasoning is not complete. Similarly: "It is clear that the primary source of information in this respect can only be a / the sender or his companion grypsu, b / receiver, c / courier '. Not least, the division overseeing the entire operation, as long as it was with the knowledge of the Germans, or the prison administration, if caught another secret messages. Also, the same secret message if it is in the archive - only show that the potency is much more and better scientific publications based on institutions than on its own logical reasoning. - Let's discuss Piotr :,  May  (UTC).
All well and good, but they are not the source of speculation.
Andros
it's just a reference to thy consideration that would be praised Bandera contacts with solitary confinement, and if not praised, that is, they did not have these contacts. Your reflections were no sources and were speculative, and that my comments may not have sources. By definition. And the sources I wrote at the beginning 
Jaroslaw Swatko writes in his book that Bandera was transferred to Sachsenhausen "early winter" (the winter /), so even more in . The potential grypsach not informed. 
And there is something more accurate? For Germany with its flaws, but the records were accurate. Writing daily arrival date even ordinary prisoners, much less special. No one gave the date of the daily / monthly? Because the beginning of the winter, it can be, and  December, but well  et seq. years. And if you understand the customary winter, kalendarzowo not, even December , could be. Not that it was great in itself important, but a shame that there is no precise data. 
Taking into account that all the guys from the Abwehr were Widerstandzie it should also be noted that.
BTW, are there any specific sources for the period - or not? Today is not.
Today there are no sources.
Andros
Today there are no sources? Let me repeat once again: source Yad Vashem - "The Germans were completely opposed to this, so they deported to Sachsenhausen Flag. He kept in contact with his Comrades, and was finally released in September ." Repeat it over there is not cause to disappear, otherwise a lot of things from Yad Vashem to disappear. You can argue whether it is the source of a sound or not, but to say that it is not, since it is a link to it and the text is displayed over it. I think that you mean is that in the article no longer exists, if it is actually you're right, when he removed them, so no. 
Not only is given, or in contact with those who were with him in the camp, and those on the outside? 
This statement is so general (and not the original source), you can not go nadinterpretowywać IMHO. Is it a problem to find a source of scientific fact? (Who, when, where, etc.). BTW. That is why the Flag and Stetsko were in Sachsenhausen-Zellenbau because they were under the authority of the SS, not the Abwehr, which is a structure, as we know, were in conflict, disbanded in  in favor of SS.
Regard
An
I do not know I do not have the source. And that's why I do not have any confidence.
Andros
For example, the above discussion shows how easy it is to manipulate the facts in a discussion covering them with nice words and throw false accusations. Andros reef accused me of falsification, while put in the password text about the same as me, so that I pulled out of the other proposals. So far, Andros can not give an exact date a Flag in the camp thus guesses are more important than facts. In fact there are contacts with the surrounding Bandera in the camp, who listened to the speech Zięby knows yadwashem confirms this. For the administration of the Polish Wikipedia importantly, however, unfortunately, false slander someone help you usadzić rebellious than normal text password. 
As you Paul caught the rigging reefing and got sanction for a moderate, at least keep your cycle so that the matter does not come back.
Andros
Indicate where in forged reef, and then place the charges. The fact that you did not get banned for notorious war editorial does not entitle you to sling mud. It seems that the arbitration committee ordered you specific expression and describe the changes in the article. 
Everything is over - the willing can read a waste of time grinding language.
Andros
So everything is clear ... so obvious that you can not write. 
Pleas
Cool is that for a month I got banned, but anyone can have written to me exactly where in the WP: WER broken. It will help me to avoid the same mistake in the future. Not much I require. 
Linking dates 

I removed the article redundant links to dates that do not relate directly to the content.
Guided by the recommendations of the Wikipedia "is not recommended to link the words, phrases, dates, and concepts that have no direct link with the password." - Nielinkowanie dates - problems.
I
Regard
Dead link External
During several automated bot runs, the following external link was unavailable. Please check if the link does not actually work, and if so, replace the running.
After verifying and improving the link remove this template. You can always check dead links from your choice categories.
If the page has moved and the link redirects to the new - Update link. If it works and there is no forwarding - let the bot operator.
* Http://wiadomosci.onet.pl/, , item.html
In Stepan Bandera on -- :: p.m.,  Not Found
In Stepan Bandera on -- :: p.m.,  Not Found
In Stepan Bandera on -- :: p.m.,  Not Found
This article requires the insertion infoboksu. If you want to - do it using the template {{infobox}} Policies.
Read how to insert infoboks. Instructions for the use of a template can be found on the documentation page. See a list of articles with the template.

Dead link External
During several automated bot runs, the following external link was unavailable. Please check if the link does not actually work, and if so, replace the running.
After verifying and improving the link remove this template. You can always check dead links from your choice categories.
If the page has moved and the link redirects to the new - Update link. If it works and there is no forwarding - let the bot operator.
* Http://www.president.gov.ua/documents/.html
In Stepan Bandera on -- ::,  Not Found
In Stepan Bandera on -- :: p.m.,  Not Found
The arrest and stay in the camp. 

"Accordin
I
Firstly, please write per pan as before, his colleagues are not. Secondly you terribly mixed, once you messed up so nicely that until I got banned for alleged bad quoting sources. First, you insert it rewertuje OR, and despite the fact that you proved that you have no reason and now you add any unnecessary information about the source of the content your password. If it is verifiable, reliable, there is no need to give a name in the text of your password, just enter it in the reef. It is common practice, though it sounded as if the sentence password exchange information source. Since there are reefs. Please complete this little war. 

For me, it's not controversial, but since a few years Andros fought for the edit war, it would delete and remove my edits, then suddenly he was fair, the original source of this should at least give them -  and not enter the lexicon, which so long humiliated and denied him the right to be the source. Once again, we found out who is right. Just read the above discussion and what Peter wrote. 
Footnotes

↑ Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, In Association with Yad Vashem, The Holocaust Martyrs 'and Heroes' Remembrance Authority, Dr. Rozetta and Dr. Robert. Shmuel Spector, Editors, Yad Vashem and Facts On File, Inc.., Jerusalem Publishing House Ltd, 
Fo
No, nothing is agreed, just for the sake of wikilove not protest again against the placement of information without the original source, unknown in the entire historiography of the problem, but I demand a precise description of the given information, the administration is not as if it were a fact recognized in the historiography - because it is not.
In the name of wikilove not raise the issue of evidence of the NPA, such as rewriting the text word for word journalism MA Rossolińskiego-Liebe. 

See 
Needless to comment on what qualifies NPA evident.
Mr. Paul once on the matter referred to the source, which is not seen on the eyes. It is the same way. Encyclopedia of the Holocaust, In Association with Yad Vashem, The Holocaust Martyrs 'and Heroes' Remembrance Authority, Dr. Rozetta and Dr. Robert. Shmuel Spector, Editors, Yad Vashem and Facts On File, Inc.., Jerusalem Publishing House Ltd,  - The Lord read that the Lord calls it?
Nothing, I repeat, ANY historian dealing with the problems of such a determination is not set. Even the entry in the lexicon is quoted in an unauthorized manner NADINTERPRETOWYWANY by Mr. Paul.
After the German invasion of the Soviet Union, Flag's Representatives Declared the establishment of an independent Ukrainian government in LVOV on June , . The Germans were completely opposed to this, so they deported to Sachsenhausen Flag. He kept in contact with his Comrades, and was finally released in September 
. Was a discussion on this topic before, which Mr. Paul is trying to ignore. "He remained in contact with his companions," does not mean "have external connectivity," especially during his stay in Sachsenhausen. Let me point out, at which point it is directly written and who personally (what a historian) in this statement is signed. With equal success can be explained by the sentence that was sitting together with companions, and not in isolation. This is consistent attempt to boost POV without support in the sources.
I expect at least a minimum of editing and desirability of cooperation description introduced by Mr. Paul information. Here you can edit any other standards than in the whole Wikipedia.
There is no timeline of the war and there is no primary source on the subject. These are just rewerty Mr. Paul for neutral information, which does not correspond to his POV.
Regard
As usual, a lot of words and a lot of accusations, few facts. And the facts are simple 
Everything about this position, the integrity and neutrality of the truth, but I will ask, however, for the record 
Of course, I did not have this in hand, used the Internet lexicon yadwashem recognizing that a solid institution and does not publish on their web stuff. Andros attempted to undermine the credibility of the lexicon, claiming that it was an online source, one that does not stand for, etc. It turned out, however, that we have behind this great publication. I remember that we also had an interview with a Polish historian, who spoke clearly about the flag in contact with the CNS during their stay in the camp and for some time this information was zarefowana for this interview, but unfortunately ran tvp this video somewhere and then Andros removed this information. Flag activity was on hand to Germany, urged the OUN-B does not enter into conflict with Germany, which was partially implemented (UPA did not destroy railway lines, did not attack the front units). And finally Flag was released as a result of negotiations with the Germans in the anti-Soviet cooperation. 
Alexander Dukes-anti-Polish propagandist 

Pleas
Let there be no doubt:
Dukes, who is director of the Historical Memory Foundation's your vision of history entered in "Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in questions and answers." Historian repeats what the Russians have the rain: the Soviet Union signed the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact "for its national security." - Perhaps they were brutal, but did not differ from those used by other countries - he explains.
He also referred to the events of September , , when the Soviet Union entered the Polish market. - When we talk about the so-called. mission of liberation, that is, the introduction of Soviet troops on the territories of Western Ukraine and Western Belarus, we have to understand that it was done under the operating rules of international law on the right to self - explained. In his opinion, there is no reason to talk about violence, because "neither France nor Great Britain, or even Poland has declared war after the Soviet Union". Dukes also writes that the Polish-German secret protocols "probably" existed. When asked at the conference about the source of knowledge, which entered the brochure said he did not know of the existence of such documents, but only heard about them.

On the "revelations" of Russian media and historians do not intend to respond to the Polish government. Prime Minister Donald Tusk said the government should not engage in polemics with journalistic materials or comments, even as "unwise and unjust" as those that have arisen. Would have acted differently if that was the official position of the Russian government - he explains.

The Polish-German secret protocols, wrote in his book presented a week ago, "the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in questions and answers," Alexander Dukes. He announced then that the documentary evidence of the truth of his words, as they have been drawn up by Gen. Lew Sockowa the Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) set of documents "Secrets of Polish politics. Collection of documents from  to ." The fact that the Polish-German secret protocols existed, he said a few days ago the same Sockow.
Yesterday, General presented the book. Reprinted in the content of a single document, which included the suggestion of the Polish-German secret protocol. It is devoid of dates "agenturalny report" sent to the NKVD by the "Polish major source". Reference was supposed to read the protocol and its contents quoted memory: "In the case of direct or indirect attack on Germany Poland agrees to remain neutral." So there is no question of a conspiracy directed against the Soviet Union, but the commitment not to use force, which was quite apparent in the non-aggression agreement.

What's more, the same "source" reports that the Polish Foreign Minister Jozef Beck, who, according to historians of Russian intelligence was to be the mainspring of German-Polish anti-Soviet conspiracy, in an interview with French fascists opposed to the idea of ​​invasion of the Soviet Union.

According to Mariusz Volos, a historian and a representative of the Academy of Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a book published by the Russian history is written in a very sloppy, relying on documents that are not clear where, uncritically refers to the reports contain serious errors agents showing their complete ignorance.

- A proof of the existence of secret protocols Polish-German relations is not, because they can not be. The whole story is a fake planted by the Soviet secret service French press. French diplomats before the war recognized it as a provocation - reminded Wołos.

During yesterday's presentation I asked Sergei Ivanov, a spokesman for Russian intelligence, based on what evidence the official website SWR Beck called "German agent", and Prime Minister Stanislaw Mikolajczyk - "British agent". In response, I heard the promise: - We will investigate the matter and respond officially

Dukes claims that any aggression against Poland, and it was not - as Soviet historians - only talks about the liberation of western Belarus and Ukraine. If we talk about the march of liberation, the entry of Soviet troops into Ukraine and Belarus, we must understand that these actions were in line with international standards, with the right to self-help - says Dukes. Stalin and other actions, such as deprivation of citizenship of Poles by the Soviet Union were - according to Dukes - in accordance with the law. As told RMF FM correspondent Przemysław March Russian Foreign Intelligence Service is soon to publish Polish intelligence documents to prove how much Poland has contributed to the outbreak of the Second World War.


Alexande
You can not spam? Links enough to read the source. Information repeats Schenk giving slightly differing content of the call (short), what you are doing is vandalism, I'm surprised that there are no admins admonished to you. 
Quote
