Oh, and IOP hero novoyspechёnnыy: people killed by the Nazis with sotrudnychal, and why not a hero - a hero eschё some kind! So keep Ukraine, can eschё Hitler hero nazovёte?

In the museum of Stepan Bandera no house-museum in Stry. Why? Should bring it to the list!

and why not vicar?

and why not vicar?

    Facts evidence? 

I dolzhen yzvynytsya: I predpolahal, that kak author ýîé articles with svoystvennыmy udostoverenyamy, You were vpolne in history courses Detail rest of this character. In short, here ìîè dakazatelstva ...





(Ymenn

    Here the phrase OUN collaborated with Nazi Germany. That OUN collaborated with Nazi Germany. From this you can conclude that Bandera Nazi collaborator. But he did not enter into any fascist organization, so the employee can not be considered. Also in the article does not identify any sources, so it can not be considered as evidence. 



    You had that in mind Bandera i Stećko zostali aresztowani przez Niemcw. This article also does not identify any sources, so that can not be considered as evidence. (Actually I do not know the Polish language, but something I read) 

        Z pol's'koji perekladajet'sja jak: "Bandera i Stec'ko buly areshtovanymy nimcjamy". Z choho vyplyvaje, sho vony ne buly nimec'kymy spivrobitnykamy, oskil'ky buly areshtovanymy samymy nimcjamy. Vybachajte za translit. 



    It's all fun Stefan Bandera 

Interestingly, you nahodytes in Kiev? I'm in Cleveland, Ohio. we have, by the way, here there Ukrainskaia radio.

    One note, if you make changes in the text of articles 

Strange link

As Talk: Vyacheslav Lipinski, propose to hold reference Stepan Bandera on the site "Ukrainian Pages" here. 
Card

It seemed like such a man card add 

    And is it something sooblyvym distinguished? He was in the OUN in prison ... Still do not know what znoho made a "national hero." I understand the "heroes" can be put like Chuprynka, Skoropadskyi Makhno, but Bandera? ... 

        al

            Well so is long. 

Note Turkish

Strange conclusion: Bandera was not part of any Nazi organization, so it can not be fascist collaborator.

In fact, to be called so, it is important not membership in some organizations, but only the act of cooperation. This is evident even from the point of view of common sense.

This article is not neutral. There tendetsiyni "errors": for example, the Great Patriotic War called "German-Russian." What is at least a "German-Soviet" - everything will be better, because Germany is not at war with Russia and the Soviet Union (I think this fact to deny you anything), which included and Ukraine (in this instance it does not matter how to treat it, because it is also a fact). And as the Nazis destroyed the Russians and Ukrainian, and many Ukrainian (my grandparents, for example) fought against the Germans. Can, from your point of view, these were two different war - the German-Russian and German-Ukrainian?

I think that the article should be recycled.

Vikto

    I have some comments, questions the proposal. In the second sentence, I understand that all the leaders of the USSR, along with Stalin, Molotov, etc., with military instructors who taught fly and shoot the German military in the Soviet Union in a friendly exchange, all the cameramen who filmed chronicle where Soviet military obmnimalysya with friends -Nazis offered called "fascist officers"? May have as a result will be called fascist communist regime? As you can see there is some confusion with your text. Please clarify the position clearer.

    For "German-Russian" war, in articles on kontkstu implies that Russians call "second Vylykaya Ottechestvennaya" that began in . I understand that in  Ukraine was occupied by Soviet troops and the Germans in Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk, etc. met first (of course then the situation has changed) with bread and salt and flowers. Of course you can call that war, as you say, "the German-Soviet" - everything will be better, because Germany is not at war with Russia and the Soviet Union. But so could be considered only in the Kremlin. Do you think that possibly other Soviet peoples, nations except the Russians, it was a war of aggression against their oppressor? While it is difficult to say how it would all have happened if Stalin first attacked Hitler.
    Dear Viktor Turetsky, I would like to hear your opinion on the comments to your thoughts. 

        Willingly answer. I completely agree that for some time the person who made the Kremlin elite, were Nazi officers. (Or call fascist communist regime, let everyone decides for himself: it seems to me, the question rather moral and emotional rather than terminology.) For operators, teachers, etc., there is a different matter: they obeyed the top and pursued a policy on its instructions . Unlike those who are deciding the fate of the inhabitants of the Union, the "little people" had no choice. A Bandera nobody ordered to seek allies in Nazi camps.
        Regarding the second topic. Firstly, the war no one seems to be called "Second Great Patriotic War." There are well-established term "Second World War" and the "Great Patriotic War". You're right that for Russia, this World War II really was the second (after ), but the Patriotic War against Napoleon historians have called "the Great." Secondly, in  Ukraine was formally part of the Union. Hitler formally attacked not Russia and the Soviet Union. I think that with the formal side is still the German-Soviet war. The term "German-Russian war" should have the right to exist in this case, if the Germans have limited their attempts only through Russia without affecting Ukraine. But we know that is not true. Is that considered actions of the Germans on the territory of Ukraine a war, but, in my opinion, it is quite illogical.
        Now with regard to the informal side. Flowers Nazis met not all Ukrainian, and it is also a fact. Then, in , the situation for many looked like this: we live on this earth and came to us aggressors in arms - just to us but not to the Russians and the Kremlin, it is logical to give them vidkosha. Much of the Ukrainian immediately went to fight against the Germans, went voluntarily to the above reasons. Too large part to her neglect. Those who supported the Germans in the Ukrainian land, vvazhvly that the Germans would save them from Moscow. Those who immediately went to the front, believed that Germans were their slaves (I repeat: I am talking about those who fought voluntarily and not as a result of the order). The fact that he was right, still arguing, but what many saw themselves as Ukrainian citizens of the Union - is undeniable. Could, for this reason they can not be called Ukrainian?
        By the way, from your point of view, as I understand, only the Kremlin's war was the German-Soviet. And in Berlin, therefore, thought that fighting alone with, alone with Ukraine, Belarus and separately with other countries? Something is questioned.
        Vikto

            First of all, let's clarify the term "employee" (Nazi collaborator). Maybe we disagree somewhat in terms so specify. 
            Now regarding formalities of . Ukraine to  was actually divided. One part was in Poland, and the other USSR in  was occupied as a result of the Ukrainian-Bolshevik War. The part that actually belonged to Poland  was also occupied, although it was legitimized democratic will of the people of Western Ukraine. I have now to your question, if it so follow your logic, then still part for Ukraine, it was generally the first Polish-Soviet War? Right? For the Soviet Union attacked Poland, and later Germany invaded the Soviet Union and so this war was the German-Soviet war. It is for most Ukrainian as I know, even given the fact that someone in the USSR in  voluntarily joined the ranks of the Soviet Army in the period immediately after the German invasion of the Soviet Union, though ... if I'm not mistaken, the territory of Ukraine was occupied by very fast, too much, it is for the UPA as a force that fought for the establishment of an independent Ukraine, and Ukrainian, which have actively supported (much more actively than historians have tried to present), but it is also very significant part of the population of what was then the Soviet Union, the war was really the German-Russian, or "German-Soviet" or "German-Soviet" in your form. But that Ukrainian itself or with the Soviets or the Russians did not identify! The front quickly passed Ukraine and here was formed Reichskommissariat Ukraine. Therefore, in the context of the article because of the period, including one who basically then fought for the Soviets ... far too difficult to make some changes in the definition of "German-Russian". P.S. I generally tend to more neutral "German-Soviet". On the one hand, and not Russian, that will satisfy you, and the other words used to denote the time of power "Soviets", which gives a clear tone and definition.
            Regarding "Second Great Patriotic" - is hipebolizatsiya. Too bad you spent a lot of time, but the explanation was not worth it. But concerns about Berlin and against whom he fought a bit distracting from the issues. Course on self Großdeutsches Reich invaded the Soviet Union. The essence lies in the perception of the Soviet Union and its territory due to the fact often synonymous definition, Soviet-or Russian-. That's all. For example in the present article de: Deutsch-sowjetischer Nichtangriffspakt. Maybe it's not the best example, but still, you understand what I hint.

«Der Pakt mit Hitler bot Stalin die Möglichkeit, sich die ehemaligen Gebiete des russischen Zarenreichs (Finnland, Baltikum, Ostpolen, Bukowina, Bessarabien) einzuverleiben und sich damit eine Atempause vor einem als unabwendbar angesehenen deutschen Angriff zu verschaffen, um die sowjetische Aufrüstung abschließen zu können »

            


        Smeshalys bunch of horses, people :) Veymarskuyu republic and the Third Reich confused not necessary. And tales at Guderian, chemu something nauchyvshemsya in the USSR too rasprostran not necessary. Not teshte samolyubye of Russian ympertsev even though.

Bandera with children, wife, friends, leisure - in Italy, France, Switzerland, Skiing in the Alps ... Photos that are not published before.




Contributions else neskolko faktov of life Banderы not udaetsya

Hmm, post else neskolko faktov of life Banderы not udaetsya. Facts not nravyaschyesya mistress Gutsul mhnovenno udalyayutsya ...

    "Do not you think that possibly other Soviet peoples, nations except the Russians, it was a war of aggression against their oppressor? While it is difficult to say how it would all have happened if Stalin had first attacked Hitler"

Speak only for yourself in a while kak banderovtsы voevaly for not ponyatnuyu me ydeyu in alliance with anti-chelovecheskym fashystskym regime kotorыy áûë osuzhden everyone peace. Nastoyaschye people voevaly against Hitler together and not delylys for Russians, of Ukrainians, belorussov, Georgians, kalmыkov, etc. - It is written, but not signed, the user ... (talk • contribs).

    And Stalin and Hitler only son mass murderers, so you can also say that all those who fought for Stalin criminals. And Stalinist regime also condemned by the whole world. By the way in the occupied territories of Ukraine to the Germans lived better than the Communists 

        Che-I at Nyurnberhskom process over stalynskym regime not heard of. - It is written, but not signed, the user ... (talk • contribs).

            Firstly, changes non-Ukrainian, secondly, without sources, thirdly, neneytralni, fourthly, Symonenko wrote poetry not with so many mistakes, etc., fifthly, of infringing copyright, besides many that do not apply to Bandera. I think these reasons enough to undo 

                At the expense Ukrainian Me agree, was a wrong thought that this is the draft Ukrainian, and Ukraine yspolzuetsya still two language, but in the rules prochel, that project is not Ukrainian, but "for the Ukrainian people," Sources were published I had them only properly draw not uspeval Changes udalyalys, and text were published ones, neutrality - is kak again in this article uh no, article - and not odnobokaya reflects reality. For example, information about the falsyfykatsyy and links to zheltuyu press on occasion of the st of space in the project "into large ukrayntsы" clearly not эntsyklopedychnaya, only by logic, Bandera Can not classes first place Since more than % of the population of Ukraine believes ego fascist and yzmennykom homeland , if voted for him, mostly residents of West Ukraine, this is else not mean, that character on vsey country.

No, not dead UKRAINE!

I met with you in the days of strict
When the lights red tongues
Reached from the ground under the stars themselves
And torn sky planes.

Then you have people called dogs
Because you licked the Germans shoes,
Shouted "Heil" hoarse bass
And "still alive ..." roared loudly.

Where do you go - there is wasteland and ruins
And corpses not fit into pits,
Spitting blood "mummy Ukraine"
In muzzle you and your masters.
 
You have already cuts her niece,
Sold to us and over all the earth,
When would then be in country for reinforcements
To the east, did not return "Russians."

Now you again pozv'yazuvavshy bones
Trading and wholesale and retail,
New executioners pryproshuyete visit
In Ukrainian lard and bread.

You'll wander around a foreign country,
Until all hell will not take,
Because you know - not yet dead Ukraine
And do not die!

                (Vasy

                At the expense of copyright, I nyhde not upomyanul that this is my personal contribution to the Historical Studies. Yes not byohrafycheskye DATA Banderы, but DATA ego harakteryzuyuschye How ystorycheskuyu fyhuru.

                But I still ponyal, thanks for the criticism, now podhotovlyus thoroughly.

                Zaporizhia Cossack. 

Once again on A.

Do not be to rename the article to "Stepan Bandera"? And it sounds a little crazy ;-) 

    Do you have any convincing arguments than "sounds a little crazy"? 

        Well

            The article named according to the naming convention of articles in the Ukrainian Wikipedia. For those who "sounds a little crazy" is to redirect: Stepan Bandera, Stepan Bandera. 

                Sorry, this is not the rule. In CAP: IC rule is only part of the canonical order of the names. To my knowledge he never used Bandera patronymic. 

From materials doprosa zam.nachalnyka nd Abwehr offices

During interrogation, the deputy chief of the nd branch Abwehr, Colonel E. Stolz, May , , he testified that Stepan Bandera and Andrew Miller at the beginning of  have been agents of Abwehr and HAVE money from Germany for conducting insurgent activity in the western Ukraine. 

    Site "www.otechestvo.org.ua" is not a reliable source of useful links to German sources. 

Information about the volume, that Bandera áûë oplachyvaemыm Abwehr agent so it should be the same and the second testimony of collaborators Abwehr: Alphonse Paulus, Siegfried Müller, Эrvyna Stolz 

Colonel Stolz áûë taken in Berlin in Plaine Krasnaya Army, and testimony, DATA im in Moscow, were published predstavlenы sovetskoi storonoy Military Tribunal in Nuremberg. Document USSR-, Nuremberg, 

Of links to CEI Protocol is not one. This of existing document. What mean links to nemetskye Sources? Ãåðìàíèÿ not doprashyvala svoyh polkovnykov.

(UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

        Alexander Reshydeovych Dyukov who posted the material, despite the fact that his fans to write articles in Russian and English Wikipedia (see ru: Dyukov, Alexander Reshydeovych not a historian, but only publitsytom and journalist. He does not have a degree, been published in scientific journals. Ie it is not an authoritative source on the history of Ukraine. Perhaps somewhat emotional determination of its staff as a provocateur FSB quite often can be found in various publications  

    I would like to see these materials Nuremberg not Russian in the revision of Soviet propaganda. The Soviet government and the KGB did everything possible to discredit the OUN and UPA as Soviet sources can not be considered objective. If the Germans cooperated with Bandera, they must be German documents about this. A fudge Soviet propaganda is not a reliable source. 

        Do you have objective data that specifically these statements are false? - Movses

            Do I need to prove that the Soviet propaganda based on lies? 

        Dear, I asked a specific question. I see that you have nothing to say on specific documents. - Movses

            According to the rules OP: DR and VP: IU Wikipedia users should not give opinions on primary sources, what is similar protocols. Generally, the use pevynnyh documents not welcome on Wikipedia because of the possibility of speculation on the basis of such documents. Therefore, you must submit evidence of historians on these materials, and reference to the same protocols can be just as advanced. 

                Here is link to Arriving Nyurnberhskoho process:
                Trial
                The Trial of German Major War Criminals Sitting at Nuremberg, Germany. Vol.. Session , February , , Part  of , Page :
                "In carrying out the above-mentioned instructions of Keitel and Jodl, I contacted Ukrainian Nationalists who were in the German Intelligence Service and other members of the Nationalist Fascist groups, whom I enlisted in to carry out the tasks as set out above. In particular , instructions were given by me personally to the leaders of the Ukrainian Nationalists, the German Agents Myelnik (code name 'Consul I') and Bandara to organise, immediately upon Germany's attack on the Soviet Union, and to provoke demonstrations in the Ukraine, in order to disrupt the immediate rear of the Soviet Armies, and also to convince international public opinion of alleged disintegration of the Soviet rear "
                
                ZaporozhyenCossack :,  July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack
                Also exists in a pile of work kotorыh utverzhdaetsya, that Stepan Bandera and the OUN lyderы appeared agents natsystskoy Hermanyy and something's Deyatelnost fynansyrovalas and koordynyrovalas through Abwehr. For example:

                    article Professor Anatoly Tchaikovsky "I OUN UPA in light NEMETSKYH documents I SVYDETELSTV OCHEVYDTSEV" - 
                    The book "Without the right to Rehabilitation" with large numbers of authors - 

                ZaporozhyenCossack :, ​​ July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

                    This is a little bit better :). Anatoly Tchaikovsky - historian, though quite neneytralnyy. But the book is "NO RIGHT TO Rehabilitation" of such authors as Vitrenko, Rook and co - very dubious source. Actually, about Bandera from Abwehr contacts can be found in many sources, so I do not think that this should select the most controversial.

                        Online 
                        Here is another very neutral and very authoritative source , found another article  by Taras Hunczak also quite respectable historian. Well, actually, the conclusion of the working group of historians , which on history.org.ua somehow does not open.

                    

                        Even I do not know Could site 
                        And also vypuschennaya in late , the book "The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. The professional opinion of the working group of historians in the Government Commission on the OUN and UPA. " In trace kotoroj came out a decree Deputy Prime Kirilenko 
                        ZaporozhyenCossack :,  July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

Osvobozbdeniye in  year - humanyzm fashystov ili continuation of cooperation

In article pryvodytsya text: "German prisoner was Stepan Bandera to December  then fired him and several other leading members of the OUN from prison, trying to attach themselves OUN and UPA as an ally against Moscow. Bandera German proposal strongly rejected and cooperation did not go. " s sыlkoy on 
The site 
Ved If Bandera otkazalsya cooperate vovse, then why on and his comrades of the OUN prodolzhaly live on the territory Hermanyy and before the end of the war, and after. Hard to return, that rehsfyurer SS H.Hymmlerom áûë so loyalnыm and on failure of Banderы just otpustyl ego and his comrades and allowed the spokoyno live and work at Hermanyy territory.
ZaporozhyenCossack :,  July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

    Let's not blame everything to the pile.
    So for example, which could have involved Himmler to Bandera stay in Germany after the war?
    And to extend the cooperation which you speak? That cooperation has been in detention Bandera in prison? Good cooperation.
    Also, I do not see the point of discussing the content published on the level of "anti-orange", and also the anonymous author.
    Let's start from the end - suppose you prove Cooperation Stepan Bandera with the Abwehr and / or intelligence Gestapo. What next? What you get from it? Why you want to come at the end, really?
    

        Of course, after the war nykakoho relationships Hymmler not ymel, but before it The end, I think, on ymel nekuyu power in Hermanyy.
        On cooperation, in his capacity as employee Abwehr, kotoroe nachalos else to war.
        Weekly Article "" №  ()  -  March  For something Skorzeny who saved Bandera? by Miroslav Berdnikov 
        Not Sovsem ponyal Your question, "me will give" - ​​korrektnuyu of information in the article.
        ZaporozhyenCossack :,  July  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

            I'll start from the end:

                I regret that you, in fact, declined to answer my question. Cliches such as "korrektnuyu of information in the article," I do not need and not what you asked.
                Weekly "" is by no means an authoritative source, in fact this release category "yellow press." In terms of this edition is not mentioned "anti-Orange" and follows the same political views.
                Thus, using a democratic current legislation of Ukraine and condescension relevant institutions such materials are published widely. Does it avtrytetnymy them?
                Author's name is Miroslav, and Miroslav - is one of the daughters of the famous writer Oles Berdnyk. Pomylochka small but typical - shows how "thoroughly" You learn as you suggested sources.
                This author of the formal part of it is better than anonymous, but Miroslav does not avtrytetom in history. When she writes memoirs about his father it deserves attention, but only in comparison with other sources.
                I do not know what a "worker Abwehr" because it was not a factory / plant, and military intelligence.

            If you compare your last two replicas of what you wrote earlier, you just stubbornly repeating the same thing, without citing authoritative sources.
            Then I is the belief that we are wasting your time.
            

                Articles, ssыlayutsya to documents Such As, for example, memuarы Otto Skorzeny, Proceedings Nyurnberhskoho process, etc. and I do not have based schytat's not avtorytetnыmy. And else there are logical, ego otpustyly in October th, on otkazalsya Working with the Nazis, and ones saying "nothing terrible ydy with peace" so turns bespretsendentnыy The case in the history of the camp and fashystskyh's politics. In name of the author, please forgiveness. Level editions - opredelyt of heavy, we did not exists nezavysymыh ... "Employee" - this erratum, of course, for exploration korrektney write "agent."
                Please Forgiveness, that spent your vremya.ZaporozhyenCossack :,  August  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

                    You have nothing to apologize for - I understand what you tried to do like (in your opinion) better.
                    The fact is that if you continue to hold an opinion on the credibility of sources on such external (superficial) signs as having mention of Otto Skorzeny or Nuremberg - then you wasted spend primarily their own time.
                    Agree that if you want you and I together (or separately) themselves could "bungled" like text, as it does, for example, a biologist Miroslav Berdnik (if we have already mentioned about it). I'm not talking about that "scholarly" mention sources are professional cliche various n. "Borzopystsev and schelkopёrov" which also rewrite (just copy) Like "link to source" each other - that's me in that I doubt that at least  in  such "publitsistiv" at least holding the Skorzeny memoirs or something.
                    Of course, the humanism of "Germans" (those we discussed in the context of the events we have (from the USSR) used to call the Germans, particularly the Abwehr, Gestapo, etc.) for Stepan Bandera is not out of the question - it is clear that they regarded him as "a great figure "and had big plans to him (especially at a time when they already were ready to grasp at straws, because" trying to attach themselves OUN and UPA as an ally against Moscow "is quite logical). Clearly, Bandera used this interest for their own purposes, but it is unclear (at least to me and many others) or was it a commitment, and if taken, which ones. The same applies in the period to September  and the period after the liberation in .
                    So if you set up to search authoritative sources (such influential works of professional historians with detailed references to primary documents), followed by a thorough study of those works, then I'll be happy to further assist you in working on this article. If your intentions are exhausted invasion clippings from tabloid newspapers for anonymous authorship or biology or something - then sorry, but I do not want to waste time with you (but I will continue to keep the story under the supervision of at least because it is my duty as administrator ).
                    

                        Thanks for the explanations and Understanding, just sort of phrases in the article: "German proposal Bandera strongly rejected the cooperation did not go" too vzyatы not understandable from where, article "infested" link to "zheltuyu Press" and info about the part in the project "Great Ukrainian" in Tacoma obъeme s sыlkamy to "zheltuyuyu press" in general, As it seems to me, not dolzhna prysutstvovat in эntsyklopedycheskoy article. Thanks for the part, ponyal bases Correct work. ZaporozhyenCossack :,  August  (UTC) ZaporozhyenCossack

Article very objective!

Article very objective ... and scary!

even comment here ... do not want a bunch of different links to the tabloids ... many stranded "interesting" facts of life "great Ukrainian" ... noticeable bias of the author .... and even perhaps by a fan ... if not a follower Bandera ....

I agree with the Zaporozhye Cossacks - not a place in this Scribble Entsyklopediyiyi!

- It is written, but not signed, the user Vladimir  (Talk • contribs).

article dolzhna byt obъektyvnoy. less text with bow on proysky "levыh", "pravыh", "krasnыh", "zheltыh", "holubыh" and kopypastы sites fanatov. Then i will be similar to the Truth. a reference to the Komsomol 

All fans criticism

First of all, I would like to remind about ethics. You saw in the discussion of any articles or any other language version comments language not this one? Comment on the Russian version Russian, Ukrainian do not know 

    (Oftopik removed) ... Viktor Turetsky, Odessa

        Unfortunately, and perhaps tohappiness personally YOUR opinion Wikipedia users do not care and interest should not. The fact that he was awarded the Hero, be sure to specify in the article itself, but not on the card and not in the first row, since the court decision is CANCELED 

Basil, Lviv. Please see "Murder" Fix reverse "... at" : ... "because it does not meet modern Ukrainian literary norm, the norm" ... at : ... "(read". thirteenth .. at zero five ... "). - This written, but not signed, the user ... (talk • contribs).

    Most correct, what's stopping you? 

        Fixed, thank you for your attention. And prevented Mr Basil defense articles from unregistered users are too often spoiled paper. So please register in order to avoid problems in the future 

Not

    As ruhankovoho company is something like gymnastic exercises in China, by the way. Scoops ideologues then stole the idea and, in its own, perverted, forced all recorded in DOSAAF and various "yesli hochyesh beat zdarov 

Protection

I welcome the fact that you defended this stattyu.Radzhu protect the remaining articles on the OUN-UPA. 

Certainly, the protection of this article 
Armed robbery vs. terrorism

"Under the leadership of Bandera's OUN departs from ekspropriatsiynyh shares and begins a series of punitive actions against members of the Polish occupation authorities." And you can further the "expropriation"? Who and where proekspropriyuvaly? And why give up such a fun hobby? 
By Glazunoff

Regarding your edit. Read this article here with a comment MP Taras Stetskiv (navozhu only part, read the article), "The court is not legal, it was clear from the outset. Court had no right to even consider such a decision ... and from a legal point of view is even nothing to comment on " 

    Taras Stetskiv no right to decide, legitimate or illegitimate decision of any court. Legally Bandera is a Hero of Ukraine. Before giving such "advice", learn the laws 

In the early s Stepan Bandera was recruited ...

This misinformation removed from the article: . Reason for removal 
Autobiography

On the new (uk) Wikibooks it removed and will probably be removed from the old, which was a reference in the article before. Or should do something (vote against? Deletion), or be empty link. 


Expression Bandera

Can the following quote (see below) into a paper? Mi also need to know the whole truth about our Captain, including everything he said and wrote.

"One program should be designed for members and supporters of nationalism, and the second 

    What is it yours, when you apologize conductor with several hundred pages of the book sucked a ridiculous quote and trying vphnuty it in the encyclopedia? 
    If it is a quote Bandera, then you ought ... To gain the nerve to call it ridiculous ... All-holy Bandera wrote.

Honorary Citizen

And why the card is not checked, it honorary citizen of the city, Frankivsk, Ternopil and others. Bridge? - A written, but not signed, the user NOSFERATU (Talk • contribs).

    Because the card does not provide field 

The hero, not a hero

Can Somebody legally make an educated human note, why is it still a Hero of Ukraine, despite a court order? Ynakshe circus "not a hero → rollback", "not a hero → pullback" will continue indefinitely. I wonder 

    He Hero of Ukraine for anyone, because although Donetsk court overturned the decision, but legally, all outside the law, he did not even have the right to consider this matter! Overrule the President of Ukraine can only either the President of Ukraine, and Kyiv Court of Appeals! ! And not some peripheral Court (for a state right)! Just in our country under the laws even judges do not live (((

        (Oftopik removed). Viktor Turetsky, Odessa
        Recent changes 

            Totally agree with Nosferatu. 

                He is not a hero, and not NOSFERATU to decide legitimate or illegitimate is the decision of the court of Donetsk. The decision was not appealed, so legally he is not a hero of Ukraine 

            I

                W

                    Those who now poses as a "patriot" and so zealously protect the Constitution initially at least read it. For protect SUCH fundamental law of the country 

                            Magazine "Эkspert.Ukrayna

                                When I spoke of "patriots", I was referring to politicians who bow to the Constitution of the ridiculous sense 

                                    Th

                                        The fact is that if the decision is illegal, it is canceled. Example: The Constitution of Ukraine 

                                            The decision annulled, and the consequences 

                                                In that case, why did raise a fuss, even if after judgment he remains this award?? If only embroil the country? 

                                                    Election promises had to perform 

                                                        Idiotic decision ... sorry, otherwise I can not say. Since and and and and party were offended - By :,  December  (UTC) ~

In Bandera finally took the title



    the more idiotic decision that the official reason for leaving 

As for me, the plate should be a little piece of conferring the title, and then use pereecherkuvannyam with appropriate reference to the current idiotic and proimperialistychno-komunyatsku situation. Finally there is the notion of in-case-law, that the title and the order was given and presented (native or ....), but the fact that the new "broom made by her" - the link to it.

    Behol
    Although, if you would tutechky (in Ukrainian-wiki) was more Ukrainian spirit - the "dude would not easily achieved under his feet" apostates. And so, for legal casuistry can be far in a hole to climb to God forbid warm place to stay or not ... Judge! - Kohutiak Zenko :,  January  (UTC) Glory to Ukraine! (As will fit: (

    Just curious, but what is so new happened today? It was still in April, the document on Parliament not included in removed instead of the site of the President's decree number / mysteriously disappeared. administrative case on appeal regulations of the President of Ukraine settled district administrative court territorial jurisdiction extends to the city of Kyiv. So, it could change only, ie Kyiv subjected Donetsk Administrative Court. At least decrees on the abolition of Yanukovych certainly not published this year 

"You're wrong, before the decree was just" canceled "and now he" canceled "
 [Expand]
Origina
'

            By the way, the article stated: "A court of appeals may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine within one month,  which was not done." As the press service of the President of Ukraine Viktor Yanukovych on .. information is slightly different: "The decision became final. Decree reversed. In ruling appeal filed several appeals to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine ", which indicates that, unlike the article in Wikipedia, the incompleteness of the process 

                Oh, and the Constitution, too, need each article "bold prescribe" (novuuuu-havvvvu "Horde" :). Wai-wai-wai, I forgot 

Ukrainian language in discussing

Dear members 

    Pleas

        In any case explain just saw that comment cut. User Ffederal was replaced by a replica of poor Russian-Model (reversed, whipping markup). I think it is clear what exactly this remark written in Russian. Although ... pohralysya and enough sense of replica and so understandable, but why lead her war changes 

The Russian Wikipedia dozvodyayetsya not write in Ukrainian, but here 

    No

        This is what I had in mind when rollback, I would add only that let's be more tolerant than the Russian wiki contributors and do not block for what they korysttuyutsya Ukrainian, of course, except for systematic trolling 

            It should be noted that while users who do not speak Russian can not read these discussions and therefore violated one of the fundamental principles of Wikipedia 

Collaboration

Ca

    write

=

O


"Vыydya the freedom Ukrainian lyderы obsuzhdaly hytlerovtsev proposal on cooperation. At the meeting, was involved in Kotor Levytskyy A., P. Skoropadskyy, Bandera and A. Miller, Colonel áûëî handrail conduct talks with representatives hermanskyh pravytelstvennыh circles. Started negotiations, A. Miller vыdvynul before nemtsamy number of conditions:

   - Negotiations WILL proyshodyt directly with hermanskym Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

   - Hermanskoe Government podpyshet and ohlasyt Declaration, that Ãåðìàíèÿ once and forever otkazыvaetsya from any claims on Ukrainian land and pryznaet right samostoyatelnoe Ukrainian people to the state.

   - Will creatures Ukrainian National Committee As a representative of Ukrainians in Hermanyy, nychem not svyazannыy s Russian Committee Vlasov.

   - Will creatures Ukrainskaia National Army under Ukrainian komandovanyem.

   - Nemedlenno WILL osvobozhdenы of camp on and arestov all ukrayntsы, arestovannыe on politically and natsyonalnыm reasons. 

When hermanskaya party adopted a эtyh of conditions, Colonel Miller otkazalsya here dalnejshem negotiations. In February  lyderы OUN-M uehaly of Berlin, and in April okazalys ones in amerykanskoy okkupatsyy zone. "

Accordingly - no Bandera (and Miller) otkazalsya such cooperation and Germans otkazalys of conditions such Banderы (and Miller). Assuming this is very vazhnыm point and articles neobhodimo otredaktyrovat, because imposes readers in zabluzhenye.
=
Dezinformatsiya

Toy khto tverdyt, shcho rishennya Donetskoho sudu ne bulo oskarzheno 
Leader

Bander
