FUCK pseudo country of bandera and russian svoloch asiatskaja forever !!
Bandera was a freedom fighter for Ukraine's independence and freedom - he headed the Ukrainian Nationalists party which opposed Ukraine's major enemies of Ukraine the Soviets, Nazis and Poland - his tactics although extreme were no more extreme than those employed by any other country at any other time under similar circumstances fighting for its freedom
Well, I daresay, ripping babies from pregnant women, burning alive and forcing children to eat bodies of their parents "for the glory of Bandera" is not very usual way for guerilla war.'I can understand that Poland was seen as oppresor, occupant and enemy for Ukrainians, but Volhynia Massacres was not kind of fight for freedom we both lost.
"for the glory of Bandera" is total nonsense - Polonisation occurred in Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania is terrorism and was revenged by the people - moral of the story - quit whining, stay in Poland and don't try to Polonise Ukraine ever again 
I wonder how my grondmother's sisters (10 and 16 yrs old) were polonizing Ukraine and how horrible this was to Ukrainians that they chopped them with axes. I'm not whining. I just wonder how Nazi collaborator whose gratest success was inspiring a massacre of circa 100 thousand civilians is a hero to anyone. 
Polish Polonisation, Nazis and Soviets all enemies of free and independent Ukraine - Ukrainian freedom fighters played Nazis against Commies to their advantage in their fight for freedom - Nazis collaborator? - 225,000 Polish soldiers joined German Army WW2 and carried out Nazis atrocities in Ukraine
"Ukrainian freedom fighters played Nazis against Commies to their advantage in their fight for freedom"I don't try to disgrace Ukrainian fight for freedom, I know and regret that Poland was an obstacle to Ukrainian freedom. But I ask: why do you call slaughtering harmless civilians a part of freedom fight? And why do you call a man who inspired it a hero?
the Poles were the enemy - the main inspiration of mass murder in Ukraine was Stalin and also Hitler
And the Ukrainians killed by "banderivci" - Ukrainians married to Poles, hiding Poles from massacres (like my grandmothers friend) and just simple Ukrainian folks who didn't want to watch idly as they neighbours are being slaughtered - were they also the enemy?
your Polish Government is the real cause of your problem - take your grievance to them
"In the end, the ethnic cleansing in Volyhynia and Eastern Galicia proved to be Pyrrhic voctory for the OUN-B/UPA. Although the nationalist terror drastically reduced the number of Poles in these regions, it was the Soviet government that reaped the benefits when it integrated Volyhnia and Eastern Galicia into the USSR as "primordial Ukrainian lands" "Aleksander V. Prusin
Prusin's book covers USSR history up to 1992 - in any case the Polish Government is the real cause of your problem - you should be complaining to them
the book covers history to 1992 - how does Pyrrhic apply today now that the lands are free from Polish and USSR ? - I repeat your Polish Government has been the real cause of your problem - complain to them
In first sentence you admit that murder of my relatives (amongst many many others) was UPA's victory and in the second you blame Polish Government for that murder.So was it an organized action of driving Polish settlers off Volhyna or was it a "reprisal" for forbiding learning Ukrainian language in schools in the mid-war?
 your Polish Government is responsible for your problem - you should take your complaints to them
dude, you claim that nailing newborn child heads brought freedom to Ukraine. I don't think I'm the one who's got "problem&quot
well then take your complaint or problem or dispute whatever you want to call it to your Polish Government since they are responsible - 
If I wanted to prove that sadistic murders on 100 thousand harmless civilians was either adequate reaction for forced assimilation attempts by Polish Government or "figth for freedom" (you didn't bother to tell which one is right), I would also end up with repeating some mindless slogan over and over again. 
mindless slogan that would be you 
and you call people who did it "heroes&quot
Oh, so you try to justify genocide with an inspiration? That's nice.
"you try to justify genocide with an inspiration" - I did not say that - you should learn to read
" the main inspiration of mass murder in Ukraine was Stalin and also Hitler"I know how to read. Obviously I replied to your comment in English.
After decades of relentless and vicious anti-Ukrainian Russian Bolshevik propaganda, It's hard for Russians to understand freedom fighters like Stepan Bandera.
bandera = himmler = the same pitiful shit
He fought for our freedome OF COURSE he is a HERO. My God people!!!
Could someone translate me <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(13*60+33);return false;'>13:33</a> - <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(15*60+00);return false;'>15:00</a> please? or just write, what exactly they say there in your language, and i'll translate it by myself
De Taras2802? Propav?
demotivators . org . ua/b/v/180972
So, Anglo Saxon are saying?look how... Vakula mean Anglo-Saxon) interestingly to))))))
After 7.000.000 milion Ukranians dead in 1930 is All of you Soviets neaded to go toAushvits fuckers
hmm,very interesting documentary,much of the facts ive never heard of before about ukrainian nationalists and thier aggresive nature.
Why is the narrator speaking in Russian. Curious, is this another Russian propaganda film?
TEN WASZ STEPAN BANDERA TO ZWYKLY BANDYTA I MORDERCA JAK TA WASZA UPA BO JAK NAZWAC LUDZI KTORZY MORDOWALI MALE DZIECI???
ZIT ZIDOM STRAVLEVAEM I ZIRUEM A EVREI POLICAI  O SEBE O RODNIX KAKIE MI NES4ASTNIE LAPSHA EVREJSKAIA UZE NE VESHAETSIA NENADOELO LOXAM LAPSHU VESHAT 
I can not find any other nation in Europe that deserves to be named subhumans except those repulsive ucrainians. I guess anyone who is not psychopath and finds some time and reads about Massacres of Poles in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia will agree with me. An absolute SICK nation :(
BANDERA JA NASRAJU NA TWOJU MOHILU!!!!!!
a CO TO JEST ZACHODNIA UKRAINA??? LWOW ZBUDOWALI POLACY BYL I ZAWSZE BEDZIE POLSKIM MIASTEM 80 % LUDZI TO POLACY WIEC JAKA ZACHODNIA UKRAINA??? PROPAGANDA RUSKA RUSKI ZAWSZE KLAMIE I ZAWSZE BEDZIE KLAMAL BO NIE WIE CO TO HONOR , RUSKI KLUCI SLOWIANSKIE NARODY DLA SWOICH INTERESOW , DLATEGO TAK NAS NIE LUBICIE BO MY WIEMY KIM WY JESTESCIE 
watch?v=AIYJYrzeipI&amp;list=PL9DD<wbr>&shy;D518810F909A7
No point to argue. Russians have always tried to devide Poles Lithuanians and Ukrainians. We must restore the friendsip. Together we can hold against fucking Moskovites. Let's federate again, let's restore the links, our economies, let's strenghten our armies, let's get nuclear weapons and Ruski motherfuckers kan kiss our ass. Together we are strong and they are afraid of it.
Bandera is freedom fighter and a hero - Poles stay in Poland where they belong 
UPA BANDERA TO MORDERCY DZIECI WIEC JAK MOGA BYC BOHATERAMI LUDZIE KTORZY ZABIJALI MALE DZIECI???
there were over 350,000 Poles that became "Nazi Bandits" when they crossed over to the Nazis - the world's content of Polish diaspora are refuse from the German Army - Bandera was no Nazis in fact he was captured and spent time in Nazis Prisons - 
I don't usually respond to comments made by psychologically disturbed Poles chanting inane mantras about lost past conquests
 there is a plethora of "history" of Polish past annexations, Polonization and fostering problems and wars with all your neighboring countries - seems the Poles have some sort of "anger management" problem - just to enlighten you, there is no border dispute between Poland and Ukraine - so you can take your hegemonic ideas of past conquests and shove them where the sun don't shine
Bandera gives shame only to Poles - he is Ukraine's freedom fighter against Polish terror, land grabbing and repression in Ukraine - Lviv is not Polish town you idiot 
terror of children and women. yeah. if killng babies on Ukraine makes you a national hero, than it must be very embarassing to be Ukrainian. Do you also think that Stalin and Hitler were yours heroes? 
the terror you speak of occurs everywhere and is usually compounded with other factors such as polonisation, repression etc - if you have a specific problem I suggest you refer your complaints to your own Government who were responsible for the safety of Polish living abroad 
BANDERA,SWOLOCZ I SOBAKA !
UKRAINSKA SWOLOCZ !
Ukraina have specify kind of heroes - CHILDREN MASS KILLERS . Bandera was killer that's true. You want proff ? OK write in google UPA MORDERCY DZIECI look on these sites You see little children killed by Bandera's !!! These ,,hero'' killed and crossed childrens around tree !!!!!!!That's Your hero !!!! You ukrainian should be proud !!!!!!.
Nothing against ukrainians but you hose yourself a wrong hero, he was like your version of Hitler. You will never gain any respect making a hero out of this nazi
Bandera is Ukrainian freedom fighter fought for Ukrainian flag, freedom and independence - its because of him we now see trash like you sitting on the other side of the Ukrainian border where you belong
Fucking dirty ukrainian piece of shit. 
Stepan Bandera her of Ukraine
OOO YY
and you mudlo from where that about Ukraine so to talk? who is barbarian and? judge the earth and to our not climb.
fucking ukrainian nazist from Bandera are worst than those from Hitler.They murdered childrens and women in completly barbarian way because of that they were Poles. I think that new president of Ukraine is much better because he dont glorify bandits from UPA,Bandera and SS Galizien.UEFA should cancel EURO 2012 in Lwow because in this city there is monument of the Bandera which is unacceptable in normal countries.
what does the Uniata have to do with the True Orthodox Faith of our Ancestors..?? Only with the intrigues of the Romanskii did they subvert our people from the Faith ...to subvert to Rome..! 
how unfortunate that some ukrainian people have such a twisted view of their own history. Odessa - what a disgrace... showing disrespect to the hero who sacrificed his life for the freedom and independence of Ukraine... what a disgrace to all those who were fighting to preserve our traditions, culture, our beautiful language... the people who had the courage to stand up against the communist plague coming from Russia that was destroying Ukraine, its best and brightest... how sad...
in Huta Pieniacka SS Galicia and the UPA murdered more than 1,000 Poles, seven Jews and Ukrainian Olga Orlowska from a mixed marriage. were killed and wounded a Soviet partisanYou have no honor by writing such lies, even though you know who killed
ZIT ZIDOM STRAVLEVAEM I ZIRUEM A EVREI POLICAI O SEBE O RODNIX KAKIE MI NES4ASTNIE LAPSHA EVREJSKAIA UZE NE VESHAETSIA NENADOELO LOXAM LAPSHU VESHAT 
DA UZAS KAK NAGLO VRUT A EVREI POLICAI ETA PRAVDA V KOVI4KAX DLIA LOXOV EVREJSKIJ RAZVOD O GOLOKOSTE TAKAIA ZE PRAVDA NO DENGI ZARABOTALI NA GLUPIX NEMCax 
Yeeees!!!
I'm reading all your comments. What a shit you all. We all humans. Every nation has good and bad people, but nobody deserve to die like in this documentary. Just think, what if that happens to you and your family? 
Ukraine also anexed our lands and murdered our people but we don't keep screaming about slavery etc.You can't say anything about so called "re-engeneering" or "genocide"  instead of propaganda slogans. Current borders would be similiar if we had Red Ruthenia.We know you, we can see how you stole our lands, churches, Ossolineum and now you destroy ancient books like barbarians.
Poland has no case of lost claims of land - otherwise it would have exercised that power long ago - given the fact that borders are currently determined through the democratic legal process of self determination of the immediate inhabitants past rivalries and annexations hold little sway today - if you feel strongly then stop pissing in my ear and go to the Polish Government 
Nobody force you to speak with me and I'm also bored of your history ignorance. Current borders - especielly Polish borders - are result of Stalin, Churchill and Rosevelt decisions. What's wrong with your mind to tell fairy tales about demo, legal proces? Present "ethnic lands" are only results of German, Soviet or Ukrainian genoicides and expulsions.Poland doesn't demand stolen lands, because nobody would give it back freely and we do not want new war.
you don't speak for Poland or its Govt and there is no "stolen lands" - current borders are almost identical to borders 992 when Poland became a dominion - history begins here not with Churchill or Stalin - a " new war" be careful you might lose half of Poland again
These "almost" create big defferance. Red Ruthenia is ancient polish land, stolen by Vladimir in 981 from Lendians. What is more it was also polish ethnic area. Stalin changed our eastern taking our historic/ethnic lands. Beceause you were nazi ally, made genocide and you still are lying country with nazi mentality your state should not exist any more. Partition, made by Poland, Russia, Romania, would be the only justice now.
Ruthenia is latin for Rus or Ukraine - Halychina is Ukrainian - there are 45 million Ukrainian people - Ukraine stood independent in 1917 for 2 years before it was torn down by Soviet invaders - with a population greater than Poland it was only a matter of time before Ukrainian narod would gain its independence and freedom from both Russian and Polish hegemonic hordes
America is also Latin name,so what?Halych dominated over conquered lands so Ukrainian city gave them the name,but it does not mean the lands had ukrainian origin.Ukrainian lands was also called Sarmatia once, so what?I would have nothing against independent Ukraina,if you behaved like normal people. Instead of this you collaborated with everybody,made genocide and wait for somebody to give you free country.You don't deserve to have state like civilised countries.
wrote "You don't deserve to have state like civilised countries." - which "civilized countries" do you mean? - and what do you mean "behaved like normal people." ? - which people? - 
I mean: you didn't want to fight when we made Petlura-Pilsudski alliance but you blame us we didn't give you free country then. You didn't fight for Lwow, althought it is so called "Ukrainian city". In 1939 you collaborated with Soviets and Nazis althought they were invaders and made holodomor. Instead of this you make genocide against our civilians, that were not any threat to you. You did dirty job for Nazis and expected they would give you own state for this. 
Normal people fight against invaders, not make genocide against innocent people. Civilized country do not steal other lands and art, don't destroy it and falsyfy history. What is most important, civilized state is not proud of genocide and criminals. Nowadays Germans are at least civilised as they feel sorry for their past whereas you love it. 
wrote "Civilized country do not steal other lands" - Ukraine's problems begin with Poland's invasions 16C when it seized Ukraine, forced it into serfdom and attempted to polonise Ukraine with Polish settlers, Latinised religion and language - " Normal people fight against invaders" exactly what Ukraine has been doing against Polish invaders - much of all the problems would be avoided if Polish people stayed inside their own country and kept their asses out of Ukraine 
We didn't invade your land. Kazimierz the Great took it as heritage after alliance with Boleslaw Yurij II.Rest of it we took by union with Lithuania, who earlier had taken it from you. It wasn't fair, but it wasn't polish invasion at all.Polonization is total lie, we didn't make such action. There were of course some german settlers in empty lands and polish peasants who illegaly escaped from their lords in Poland. The settlers turned into Ukrainians. 
After partitions Russians made total rusiffication and ukrainization. If we were so paranoid like you, we would cry about ukrainization now. Of course Rusin nobility, Cossacs etc. turned into Poles, but it was their free decision.Polonization is myth. You had own churches, monasteries and schools. Rusin literature quickly developed in Poland, the same with church slavonic language.I've never denied that there was strict feudalism in Ukraine but there was not any polonization. 
Ukrainian peasants were treten in the same way like polish peasants and they kept their cultural and religion freedom.I respect Ukrainian uprisings (even when you call every feudal movement - "ukrainian national uprising"), but I'm against when they turned into invasion on our lands and genocide against polish civilians.The fact is, in XX century, you stopped faighting for own independence by fight and you start collaboration, intrigues and genocide, even in Polish lands.
why didn't the new Polish settlers in Ukraine of 16C, subsequent polish immigrants to Ukraine and other Polish elements inside Ukraine - why didn't they all attempt to assimilate into Ukrainian culture? 
wrote "We didn't invade your land. Kazimierz the Great took it as heritage" what a load of tripe and just another feeble excuse for the hegemonic Invasion of Ukraine 
Yes, it was succesion to the throne. In Middle Age we lost Silesia in the same, legal way, but we are not so crazy to tell about invasion like you. Your excuse for using world: invasion still does not exist.Of course some polish settlers became Ukrainians, some of them didn't. I don't see any reason why they should became Ukrainians. I can also ask, why Ukrainian didn't all attempt to assimilate into Polish culture.
that's the whole point Polonisation caused many Ukrainians to assimilate not just in Poland but moreso in Ukraine - in fact polonisation also happened in Lithuania and Belarus - not to mention border problems with Germany, Czechoslovakia, Lithuania, Belarus even with Denmark - you Poles seem to have or had problems with all your neighbors
Of course there was polonization, but in 90 % it was free, natural choice, nobody forced them to become Poles. What do you mean with Denmark and other countries? Yes we had problem with borders in XX century, but we only required our historical or ethnical lands, we should not feel quilty at all.By the way, have you ever heard about "Zakierzonie" and "Nadsanie"?
Ukrainians, predictably, reacted to the policy of Polonization with strong opposition. The Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN), formed in 1929, began a policy of sabotage and led boycotts of Polish monopolies, especially tobacco and alcohol. OUN also carried out several assassinations of Polish officials. 
Long before OUN, there was Ukr. Military Organization. Since 1921 they started terrorist actions, not only against officials, but also against civilians, even against Ukrainians who wanted truce with Poland, not to mention that they were German spies. Only in 1930 UVO and OUN made minimum 170 action against civilians, but of course Ukraine do not say about it. Poland waited 9 years and did nothing serious against terrorism. 
Have you ever read Grabski's education law from 31.07.1924? There were not Ukrainian schools any more, but new - bilinguical, Polish-Ukrainian. Ukrainians in their classes could learn Ukrinian language freely. Also your litearture quickly developed in Poland, the same with newspapers. In Lwow you had tens of own organizations. Own people in polish parliament.
Organization were banned - mayby Proswita, Ridna Szkola, Narodna Torhowla, Sokil, Maslosojuz, RSUK cooperation (ÐÑÓÊ) and plenty of others?Ukrainians didn't reacted against polonization with opposition. Just the oposite, after few years Poland lastly reacted against terrorism with polonization.
I forget: Polish Law from 31.07.1924 also regulated Ukrainian language in public life. It said clearly that you could use your language in courts, offices, administration etc. and officials obligatorily must use Ukrainian language in their procedures every time you demand it. People, who made your propaganda, must be total morons.
" In Western Ukraine, ninety percent of the peasants were Ukrainian" = total mistake. In Western Ukraine, ninety percent of UKRAINIANS were peasants. This is huge differance. 
Polonisation of Ukraine is Terrorism driven by Poland's hegemonic landgrabbing desires - Poland's terrorism against Ukrainians in Ukraine, Lithuanians in Lithuania, Belarusans in Belarus initiated retaliatory actions against the oppressor Poland - you cannot escape, overlook or justify the root evil of Poland's historic terrorism against its neighbors 
Poland "langrabbing desires" were exacty the same like Ukrainian in 1918. It was UKRAINE that started terrorism, you should be deeply grateful that we reacted to it after few years.I'm still waiting for information and proofs for Polish terrorism against Lithuanians and Belarusans. 
I remind you the onus is on you to provide proof since Poland does not have in its possession any document which gives it a claim to neighboring territory with Ukraine 
I've provided you enough things, now it's time for you.Any claim to Ukraine... so we have again Red Ruthenia. It's history and majority is the document. 
current borders are okay - if you have a problem take your "document" to your local council or policeman
You know they are not and local policeman ,council, even parliament can not change the borders. 
there are no border or boundary disputes between Poland and Ukraine listed anywhere - seems you are wrong 
In terms of economics, the Polish government set out to colonized the Western Ukrainian settlers with Polish settlers. In Western Ukraine, ninety percent of the peasants were Ukrainian; in 1931 they controlled only 51% of arable land, 26.4% of arable land was redistributed between 15 000 Polish families resettled in Western Ukraine. Politically, the Polish government used pressure to ensure that ethnic Poles were disproportionately elected to all governing bodies
The policy of Polonization was carried out on cultural, economic and political. The Ukrainian language was attacked; Ukrainian universities and schools were closed. In 1931, there were no Ukrainian universities or colleges, and only four schools taught Ukrainian, as opposed to 775 Polish-language universities. The Ukrainian language was banned in all government institutions. Ukrainian-language newspapers were shut down. Ukrainian organizations were banned
It is outstanding, that every time when Ukrainians speak about pre-war times, you always say about polonization and Ukrainization, but never about Ukrainization and Ukrainian terrorizm.Actually Ukrainization started since partition of Poland and was made by Russians. But not so important here. In 1918 Ukraine not only tried to steal part of Poland, but also made terror and murders against Poles. Our "polonization" was nothing comparing to it. 
Polonization was a policy of forced cultural and linguistic assimilation practiced by the Polish government in Western Ukraine. Treaty of Versailles frustrated Ukrainian hopes for an independent state; Western Ukrainian territories &amp; Galicia were incorporated into new Polish state. Treaty of Versailles guaranteed minority rights. The Polish government, however, did nothing to protect the rights guaranteed with Ukrainians in fact it actively suppressed the Ukrainian population
@odoslawwrote wrote "Partition, made by Poland, Russia, Romania, would be the only justice now." - that sounds like Nazis talk - there were over 225,000 Poles serving in the German Nazis Army in WW2 - Bandera used the Nazis and was taken prisoner by the Nazis and he was assassinated by the Soviet NKVD after the war - 
I did not tell that Bandera killed only in polish lands. I say that he killed ALSO in polish lands. That is big difference.When Banera - UPA killed in other lands it was genocide, but when he killed in Red Ruthenia and Bieszczady it was genocide and invasion.
5lypnya 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. With him went his wife to Berlin Jaroslav Bandera held initially in prison, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Doctor of political economy) and Basil (in 1942 killed the Polish-guards in the concentration camp Auschwitz Capo One of the resistance groups led by younger brother Stephen - Bogdan. He died in 1942 or 1943 - the father of Stephen, was killed by Soviet authorities in 1941
you sure you are not confusing Bandera with Truman?? or Stalin?? - Bandera fought his foreign enemies the same way they treated him - except he was fighting his enemies in Ukraine for Ukraine, and for Ukrainian independence and self determination - he is a patriot defender
Great defender of Ukrainians, that collaborated with Nazis and did dirty job for Hitler. He was father of genocide against Polish civilians. OUN B murdered even in Red Ruthenia, that was not historic, neither ethnic Ukrainian at all - simply invaders and occupants. 
Freedom Fighting is relative concept - to Ukraine Bandera is a hero - to Ukraine's enemies (you) he is the enemy and you will not like him - Bandera played the Nazis against the Communists and vice verse - the enemies of a free and independent Ukraine do not like Bandera
Stefan Bandera had special rights in concentration camps, much, much better than usual prisoners, as Nazi ex-friend. Bandera played the Nazis and Soviets against Polish civilians, his people murdered us althought they coud fight against Nazis and Soviets in this time.Hitler was also freedom fighter who used to fight against German enemies but he is not german national hero. Surely German just have some ethics now. 
so where are you getting your facts from? is there some credible source? - Hitler a freedom fighter is absurd - your "people" murdered us in our country and home soil this makes your people just like Hitler or Stalin - you are the invading aggressors - check out history - incidence of Ukrainians attacking foreigners in other countries almost non existant 
Bullshit lie. Poles and Ukrainians killed each other many times. But Poles never behave like Hitler, Stalin or UPA against you whereas you DID making Volhynian genoicide. Red Ruthenia and Bieszczady were never Ukrainian, not historical, not ethnical. Every time, you attacked it and murdered Poles in it , you were nothing more than invader in other country.
the Bandera killing grounds was in lands historically connected to Rus and Ukraine not Poland - most of the killing of Ukrainians and Poles was carried out in Ukraine not Poland - are you too limited to grasp the ramification of this important notion or do I have to draw you pictures in the sand - 
bullshit? haven't you read history? - it clearly features NUMEROUS Polish Invasions and transgressions into Ukraine lands over the course of its history, historic repression over hundreds years, slavery, murders, cultural re-engineering - if you have a problem with Ukraine's borders I suggest you take it up with the International Court - by the way genocide is what Poland tried on Ukraine during its illegal occupation
It is the best time, Ukraine start using science, instead of pathetic mythes or crazy definitions. In middle ages Rus invaded our lands all the time, You murdered everybody in Uman massacre, Chmielnicki murdered civilians, tried to make partition of Poland and invaded Polish lands like Lwow and Zamosc. In 1918 you tried again to steal our lands. But Poland is not so pathetic to cry about historic repression, invasion etc altought we could.
+ all terrorism you did against Poles since ww1 untill nearly 1950, +ukrainization during partitions. We didn't invade your lands but took it by union with Lithuania. So called "slavery" or "repression" is called feudalism in civilized word, apeearently you don't have dictionary and historical books. Tell me some examples how exactly we murdered your people, make cultural re-engeneering or make so called "genocide" !!!!
the history of Poland &amp; Ukraine contradicts your assertions - annexations and past conquests do not override the principles of Self Determination of the people - Poland has long and dark history of hegemonic transgressions into Ukraine, land grabbing, resettlement and even re engineering Ukrainian culture and Religion - the current borders of Poland are very similar to its first dominion 992 - if you have a problem with this take it to the ICJ 
the Russian Red Army and Poles were invaders and oppressors in Ukraine - Bandera is Ukrainian freedom fighter who fought for Ukraine flag, Independence and freedom - its because of his efforts we now see Russian and Polish trash sitting on the other side of the Ukraine's borders
And what is between Russian and Polish borders ? Gold or shit ?
Ukraina have specify kind of heroes - CHILDREN MASS KILLERS . Bandera was killer that's true. You want proff ? OK write in google UPA MORDERCY DZIECI look on these sites You see little children killed by Bandera's !!! These ,,hero'' killed and crossed childrens around tree !!!!!!!That's Your hero !!!! You ukrainian should be proud !!!!!!
this is such bs, im from this area and we have the largest jewish hungarian and german believe it or not population, all villages of them. Some intermarry as well. What bull shit is this so called "documantery" Russians make up the history as always
ta ty sam idiot
fuck UPA. Bunch of cowards. They could only fight with children.
Hard for Ukrainians to fact the fact that some of them were as bestial as the Nazis
The same Stalin-era Russian Bolshevik propaganda as usual...now promoted by Putinists
Same Stalin-era Khokhol scum.Ukrainians are disgusting like Albanians and Ustashe.
Oh yeah! Bandera's animals as Ustashe liked killing civilians with knives, axes, hammers and other tools. 
im from west ukraine and i hate banderas 
UPA fighters aganist children and woman
UPA - murders of innocent women and chilren
Insurgent March (B.Sapeluk) youtube.com/watch?v=T4wDMyPhhO<wbr>&shy;g
Ukraine, during WWII, was overrun by many opposing armies, partisans and insurgents, and needless to say many bands of brigands. Simplistic and biased analyses originating in decades of post-WWII Polish and Russian Bolshevik communist propaganda and disinformation should be avoided.
nje smerdi tytai. ych historii. Lean history you will be know who build Lwiw. 
 And Bosirant tries to convinced everybody that UPA were nice , peace-loving boys. Thank you for a piece of true.
SLAVA UKRAINI I STEPANOWI !!!
Video Made in USSR...
LOX TV!! PROPOGANDA 100%
Ukraina have specify kind of heroes - CHILDREN MASS KILLERS . Bandera was killer that's true. You want proff ? OK write in google UPA MORDERCY DZIECI  look on these sites You see little children killed by Bandera's !!! These ,,hero'' killed and crossed childrens around tree !!!!!!!That's Your hero !!!! You ukrainian should be proud !!!!!!.
Ukraine also anexed our lands and murdered our people but we don't keep screaming about slavery etc.You can't say anything about so called "re-engeneering" or "genocide" instead of propaganda slogans. Current borders would be similiar if we had Red Ruthenia.We know you, we can see how you stole our lands, churches, Ossolineum and now you destroy ancient books like barbarians.
KLASNO!!! SLAVA BANDERI!!!
Buahaha wot geroj ukrainski! Bandera was a hero like che guavera. In most cases they both killed only women and children. And the only one thing they achieved is that thousands of usefull idiots treat them as heros. He was fighting against communists? And what? Hitler too. But UPA is symbol of shit, without honor at all, animals like communists - there is no different between them at all. I'm nationalist but I would feel fucking bad if my symbols of nationalism movement killed few months-babies.
U_
ZIDKI RASSEKRETILI ))))))
HANBA !!!!!!!!!!!!!!
WOLYN WE REMEMBER!!!! to lemurekPL yes they killed ukrainian civillians but they didn't cut their heads legs, they didn,t masacrate people before killing! fucking hero!! yeah! hurray! now you have your ukraine! wery wery free!!
you can compare all the polish leaders to hitler too. Didn't Armija Krajowa kill Ukrainian civillians?
Ukraina bandery to koniec Ukrainy.Finish Ukraina.
Bandera fought for Ukrane so he's our hero.
FUCK YOU!
I've provided you enough things, now it's time for you.Any claim to Ukraine... so we have again  Red Ruthenia. It's history and majority is the document. 
Via +100500
youtube.com/watch?v=FOPapZhZFF<wbr>&shy;k
WHAT A GREAT VIDEO!!!! WHAT A GREAT PATRIOT!!!...- SLAVA!!!!
Ukraina have specify kind of heroes - CHILDREN MASS KILLERS . Bandera was killer that's true. You want proff ? OK write in google UPA MORDERCY DZIECI look on these sites You see little children killed by Bandera's  !!! These ,,hero'' killed and crossed childrens around tree !!!!!!!That's Your hero !!!! You ukrainian should be proud !!!!!!.
Via  +100500
Bandera is not hero. He was poor, illiterate and uneducated Ukrainian peasant who was abused and tortured by his violent drunk father in his childhood. Ukrainian national heroes are Nikolai Gogol, Boghdan Khmelnitsky, Prince Vladimir of Kiev, Kievan Rus and Orthdox Church.
Criminal, banditism, corruption, scandals, mafia, drugs, alcohol, unmorality and lack of belive in God has overfllowed modern Ukraine. Political instability and ideological warfare only increases this suffering of our Ukrainan and Russian people living in Ukraine.So Bandera and other idiotsms are only peak of moutain of horrors in Ukraine today.
Even leprocy and colera are on extremely high rise in Ukraine. The disseses that have been exterminated in 21. century.Ukraine is bankrupt and overhyped with financial dept. Ukrainian financial dept cannot be repaid with such unproductive ecconomy as Ukraine is.Ukraine does not have energy, industry or high-tech sector. The only thing that Ukraine have is it`s own land and agriculture. But agriculture in Ukraine is undeveloped and without investments.
Ukraine was one of the most industrialized Republic of former USSR. Now it is on the same level as pre-industrialized countries of Africa. Ukrainian education system in USSR was one of the most developed on this planet. Now national education system of Ukraine has less value and competitivnes than Albanian schools.Ukrainian health system is in ruins. According to WHO there is a plague of cardiovascular disseses, cancer, leukemia, HIV, hepatitis, tubercolosis...in Ukraine
I worry about Ukraine allot !My heart is being torn apart when I see the living standard of Russians and our Ukrainian brothers living in Ukraine today. Ukraine is one of the largest but ironicaly, the most impoverished country in Europe. According to IMF and World Bank, Ukraine will soon suffer complete collapse of all civil sectors and society in general. Ukraine does not have any industrial development. It`s industry has completely died out.
Better than to be so called "truly Ukrainian" grow up, stop consuming heroine and alcohol. Stop prostituting yourself, go to hospital to clinical threatment and get soome decent job to survive.Ukraine is in complete socio-ecconomic disaster...and things are going worst for Ukraine. But you idiots are fighting who is bigger Ukrainian and who likes Bandera moore.Bandera will not bring you happines and prosperity. Only your intelect and work will. Remember this poor lost girl.
Hey ukrainian tramp ! How was your day on streets of Lvov today ?Did Bandera paid you a bottle of Horilka to drink ? How is the life of you homeless alcoholics in Lvov today ?
Stepan Bandera was Ukrainian uneducated peasant. He had to work hard to survive. He was violent in his nature and sexualy frustrated.He is archetypical Ukrainian. Many Ukrainians of today are the same stupid and uneducated peasants.
SLAVA UKRAINI !!!!!
It is truth, very strange monuments for fascism (Bandera) in Ukraine. Which country are built monuments for murderer defenceless of woman, children becouse there were Polish, Judish, Russins???
Glory to Ukraine ! Glory to Heroes !from Georgia
P O P I E R A M !!!
Badera is a war criminal , good luck if he is your geroj
fuck you, fucking bastard!!
jewish
A KAKOE OTNOSHENIE IMEET UKRAINSKII YAZYK KO LVOVY? LVOV ETO BYLA POLSHA I AVSTRO-VENGRIYA, KAKOE OTNOSHENIE IMEET LVOV K UKRAINE I UKRAINSKOMY YAZYKY?
A KAKAYA RAZNIZA MEZHDY FASHISTOM I PIDERASTOM? NIKAKOI ETO MOI OTVET , BANDERLOGI VESYAT NA SHEE Y AMERIKE I ZA EE SCHET VOT ETO VSE VYTVORYAET
GANBA GANBA GANBA 
ªâðåéñüêå âåñ³ëëÿ ó Ëüâîâ³  <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(1*60+46);return false;'>1:46</a> ...)
im from west ukraine and i hate  banderas 
Glory to Heroes.from Georgia
Beautiful performance! Wonderful song. Thank you. Maya
BRAVO BELISIMO.TI NA 1000%PRAV,MOLODEC
@NK5029
Badera is a war criminal  , good luck if he is your geroj
These are'nt left wingers.These are far right people who are fighting against communism and for their people. 
And whats wrong with National Socialist veterans marching???
Good job!!! Hail from Latvia brothers!
proof? easy, go talk to some historians with archives, letters, documents. Go spill your propoganda else where.SLAVA YKRAINI
The title is missleading. These guys are not Nazis. They are left-wing Nationalists. Half of them wear costumes of UPA, a Ukrainian nationalist organization that fought against Nazis and Soviets in the WW2.
You forgot to mention that they bravely fought against unarmed women and children. They murdered during the period of 1939 -1947 250 000 Poles and Ukrainians. Now, those murderers are barely marching because of the medals on their jackets they don't deserve. I know that world is unfair but I hope they can't sleep good at least. I hope they have nightmares. This allows me to see them as human beings. Germans had taught them how to murder when they together had murdered Jews before Poles.
The Polish-Ukrainian conflict has started long before WW2, and it has nothing in common with Nazism. Read normal history about Eastern Europe and don't write bullshit...
Wow, do you know your history? NO!
He was a hero in his attempt to destroy the Soviet Union
Hitler invested in foreign army because he did not want his soldiers died,,Foreigners died for Him,,Then he planned to kill all Slavic people...other nations he wanted as his slaves
pleeease damn name of sooooong !!! :F 
please name of first and last song ? 
Bandera was a hero only for the devil !!! He was a murder and all the old people in this church were murders : They killed Jewish, Polish, Armenian, Russian People ! God will punish them for everything they did....
Radovan Karadzic and the recently captured Ratko Mladic will answer for their genocidal crimes in front of an international justice court, offering a small token of closure to thousands of ethnic Bosnians who suffered as a result of their mad nationalist dreams. It's a shame 100,000 dead Galician / Volhynian Poles and their ethnically-cleansed relatives won't have the same satisfaction in regard to mass-murderers like Bandera and Shukhkevych.
mechatronik17, you right, Bandera is a devil, he made borsht from polish babies.
Why are you so dymb?There wasnt country like Ukraine they were ukrainian majority in Poland like  Poles in Silesia(Germany), but Poles never killed civilians. Nazist from Bandera killed Poles, Jews, Czech, Russian and even Dutch settlers.It is not strange that later Polish self-defence organizations killed ukrainians, if I had lost my all familly i would also kill all ukrainians, but banderist killed 120 000 Poles in barbarian way.I was at the Crimea and those people are good they hate Bandera
What where the Polacks doing on Ukrainian soil? How has it always been throughout our history that the Polacks always wanted Ukrainian land and the Ukrainians only wanted what was rightfully theirs. My uncle was buried alive by Polacks. My mothers house burned down, my grandfathers bones scattered from his grave and my mothers family displaced, all done by the Polacks. Operation Wisla ring a bell!!! The Polacks were murderers on Ukrainian soil. Slava Ukraini! Heroyam Slava !
I'm sorry about your family. In the past, Poles didn't treat Ukrainians fairly, especially before ww2, and Western Ukraine had lots of Ukrainians living there. In the past it has never been under Ukrainian control. Now it is Ukraine with a Ukrainian majority. I wonder where all the Poles went, right? More then 50,000 Polish people were murdered by UPA. Don't tell me that they died on natural causes. I know the AK killed Ukrainians in retaliation(about 1 to 3 thousand) but UPA worked with Nazis.
he was payed by Hitler to use Ukranians to kill all Slavics,,He was German hero,,because of him ,,,thousands Germans survived,,,Ukrainans died for Hiter...later he proclaimed fee Ukraine,,s ermans did not lke Hm any More,Stupid Bandera thought that in te centre of Gemany ,Hitler ive him his Kingdom(Ukraine)
Bandera killed aroud 500 000 Poles,,80 000 Ukrainians who were mix with other nations
You are Great Idiot ! Bandera and Army of UPA killed bolshevists, nazis, polish chauvinists ! Not Ukrainians ! Bandera is Great Hero !!!! Glory Ukraine!Dead enemies !
SMIERC UPA, SMIERC BANDYTOM !!!
He is not a national hero. Only half of ukraine has that opinion the rest of the world knows the truth about who he was.
country of the barbarians
BANDERA=BANDYTA
UPA was like Waffen SS and NKWD
Stepan Bandera was a terrorist. He is responsibility for murder ona poor polish cyvils. Man, woman and childrens. UPA made genocide on Wolyn
 I'd rather keep in my mind the aircrash in smolensk that killed Polish President L. Kaczynski and 96 others in Russia..Glory Ukraine and Polska! 
Bohdan Stashynsky is supposedly still alive today, last known living in South Africa. He should be hunted down and murdered.
Funny one can tell his story without mentioning the massacre of Volynia – tens of thousands of Polish civilians sadistically murdered by UOA under Bandera’s leadership. Or without motioning massacres of Ukrainian Jews…No he didn’t do it personally; as he was locked by Nazis (but kept alive as a potential political asset). However if one follows this argument neither did Hitler personally execute Jews.
Thank you 4 sharing this video with us!
Why are you so dymb?There wasnt country like Ukraine they were ukrainian majority in Poland like Poles in Silesia(Germany), but Poles never killed civilians. Nazist from Bandera killed Poles, Jews, Czech, Russian and even Dutch settlers.It is not strange that later Polish self-defence organizations killed ukrainians, if I had lost my all familly i would also kill all ukrainians, but banderist killed 120 000 Poles in barbarian way.I was at the Crimea and those people are good they hate Bandera
Thank you 4 sharing  this video with us!
do U forgot 1930s and Pilsudskiy's pacification of ukrainians? or how Armiya Krayova killed ukrainians? it was revenge, I think so... the history of ukr-pol fighting began far far before second world war!
Why?
Slava GeroRm!
BANDERA OUR HERO !!!!!!
he fought for us, MAYBE he was a butcher, but he fought for us. Poland has been killing us for centuries, someday a person like Bandera would have appeared anyway.
Bandera's UPA was freedom fighters for Ukraine's independence and freedom from Polish, Russian and Nazis repression
Ukrainian costumes show prepared by Oksana Stus & Ola Oliynyk in Heritage School of Ukrainian Studies with 8th graders - graduate's class, 2012.Preparation and Show.
Better than to be so called 
Description: Vocal ensemble 
Ukrainian costumes show at Heritage School of Ukrainian Studies, February 18,2012. Rancho Cordova-Sacramento. Models - 8th graders - graduates of the School.
Description: Bandura ensemble, Children Ensemble 
Description: In the foye of the Veteran's Memorial Theater. Opening ceremony, Bandura Ensemble of Northern California
Description: Ivanna Taratula, accompaniment by Ola H. Oliynyk, Dance Ensemble 
Description: Violinists Sophia & Lesya Sokolovych, 
Ukrainian Bandura Ensemble of Heritage School of Ukrainian Studies with violinists. Rancho Cordova, California.
the best ukrainian food
Description - 
Im ukrainian. I still like you poles. Im so sorry polish civillians killed.will you guys ever like us? yeah bandera bad man. you guys can move back.greetings from ukraine!!!
SZACUNEK DLA KARATA ZA  TAKI KAWALEK !!!! 
SZACUNEK DLA CIEBIE ZA TA PIOSENKE!!!
WTF? ONLY POLAND ! 
Tak, kurwo. O to chodzi: Twoj kraj to kurestwo!
KARAT , ZAJEBISCIE !!
Motyw AK: 
KARAT TRZEBA O TYM MOWIC JEBAC UKRAINSKIE KURWY 
WIELKA POLSKA !! SMIERC WROGOM OJCZYZNY LKS LODZ FAN
POLSKA PAMIETA!
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(0*60+27);return false;'>0:27</a> kurier bydgoski - wie skad dorwac takie stare materialy ?
SWIETA PRAWDA !! ROZJEBALI SYSTEM 5!
A POLOWA Z WAS I TAK WOLI SLUCHAC JP JP
LWOW ZAWSZE POLSKI !! LEOPOLIS SEMPER FIDELIS !!
UPA-DUPA
