
Even with the Equal Ukrainians are against Bandera "Batka batko son slaughtered slaughtered son," This man told the whole prawdeo UPA and Banderowcach
11 JULY 1943 UPA attacked more than 100 Polish villages and killed more than 15,000 Poles - for example, a family Polish cosmonaut Miroslav Hermaszewski in Lipniki, Polish composer and family in Kisielin Krzesimir Debski.What kind of threat to the UPA Polish children were killed in the churches 11th of July 1943 in Volhynia? 
What people such heroes, but worship genocidal psychopaths, FUCK Flag
Truth is one - action UPA of 11 July 1943, more than 100 Polish attacked the village and killed more than 15,000 Poles - for example, a family Polish cosmonaut Miroslav Hermaszewski in Lipniki, Polish composer and family in Kisielin Krzesimir Debski.What kind of threat to the UPA Polish children were killed in the churches 11th of July 1943 in Volhynia? What threat was the baby of Huta Pieniacka smashed against the wall of the church by the SS Galicia soldier?
Well, that Ukraine is an independent state. In the past, variously came in handy, but I wish all the best for the Ukrainians. I think that this country has a lot of reaches.
FLAG = HITLER <STALIN and all Huje and fuck
you hurt the heart of the flag is yours and plain fascist bastard from pigs which has no ukraine does not and will not be, and never was, and Lvov is the Polish for ever and we will already died because Ukraine does not have it because you're poor too stupid Ukrainian what you have written about the flag here in poland flag death awaits you and all the people you can find and it will be what it was this time Volhynia was slaughtered as sabaki Ukraine forward fucking 
one good thing that he did for the Russian Poles Flags is giving it to Poland and finally killed him like a dog :))
so you think only LWOW ALWAYS BEEN AND WILL BE POLISH again whether you like it or not, you give it to us ... Kamieniec a central POLAND, and it's yours but the river Dnieper, dog boxes ... Ukraine there is all this Polish Dnieper.
after to which you write because it is not a Russian or Ukrainian language or Belarusian, so write the Ruthenian language as only one of the eastern wmiare is understandable though not quite know what's going on 
I feel sorry for you brother Ukrainians! You are great people, fertile land, beautiful girls and wise men in you too big, and you have a killer on the lips! It's who you want to be? Descendants of murderers? What future date to his children built on murder, Bandera?Let him be accursed for ever the criminal and murderer. And everyone who denounces his name will fall out of favor with God and contempt in humans at all times until the end of time .......
flag this fucker, the Lemkos only wish hurt by the Poles and Ukrainians
It's just a thug and a murderer, his gang killed herself my grandfather's brother, his wife and two children ...
I will write in Polish. Brother, grandfather of the family were murdered in Ukraine, lived in a small village near the city Translator. 
I can not translate wszysto. My grandmother was Ukrainian, and also lived in the village, and his grandfather was in the middle of a Ukrainian mother had a shelf. They just told me this story. They also had to flee from Ukraine threatened to death because they had to pack up and leave one night. My dad also was born in Ukraine yet.
Polish, he went to my grandfather to my grandmother with their children. In Ukraine doubled my grandfather's brother with his family. Regards,
This is no one to discuss them if the bandits are those characters are just no words (((((((((
A man with whom I do not think I wrote Bandera a hero, as well as at all what this for interfering in someone else's discussion, that they just know ...
I'm not butting into your discussion just says Enea should discuss with those who support the flag and I will write them bandits eze stainless wim is what this lady pzreszkadza heheehh
I'm sorry if I offended, but it is difficult to understand that someone can be considered such a hero. Regards,
You do not urazial hopefully once the EONIA eto awareness of the hero is not a thug 
So said my friend-Russian: Ukrainian partisans are actually satanic worship to glorify Bandera their supreme god, they build monuments to him-altars in their cities, I'm sure of it never changes, and never they do not confess the Polish city of Lvov it. .Unfortunately, Poles and Russians will always fought with Flag-Shukhevych cults and their worshipers ..
release by the murder of children? I were born in the Polish, Ukrainian is not home. it does not trigger, then barbarity. 
hero criminals. hero kills children
Witkiewicz's Studio Theatre Flag this band creator and UPA ally of Nazi Germany, the criminal responsible for the genocide of an innocent population of Polish and Ukrainian. Answer before the Lord God for cruelly murdering hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians and criminals riezuny.Barbarian St. Flag is a shame and disgrace of Ukraine.
It is a pity that Stalin starved of all brudasów Ukrainian.
Nazi Ukraine, the lack of candidates, selected "heroes" at the zoo.
Stepan Bandera was a bad man. Metropolitan Szeptycki his glorified. Western Ukraine has never belonged to the Polish, but Ukrainian nationalists thought that the Poles attacked them! Nothing is more vicious - This friend of Ukraine - STALIN!It took Soviet Russia you everything, not Poland! Flag was plain BANDIT!Reflect on their fate, is not much: in which language - the kakom jazyku you gawarite to sich leek!?
Polish newborn or smashing against the wall of the church by a Ukrainian soldier in SS Galicia in Huta Pieniacka was heroic struggle for freedom? if you can explain to me how you can be proud of these heroes? 
Flag is the answer to all those who came to our country uninvited invaders and intentions.
Credible source, plenty of it, for example: Wladyslaw Siemaszko and Ewa Siemaszko - "The genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish population of Volhynia 1939-1945" Hitler was exctly the same freedom fighter. He fought for German freedom from all enemies like drafts of Versailles, Leaque of Nations, Subhumans, etc. Alies.
Truth is one - action UPA of 11 July 1943, when he was attacked more than 100 Polish villages and killed more than 15,000 Poles - for example, a family Polish cosmonaut Miroslav Hermaszewski in Lipniki, Polish composer and family in Kisielin Krzesimir Debski.What kind of threat to the UPA Polish children were killed in the churches 11th of July 1943 in Volhynia? What threat was the baby of Huta Pieniacka smashed against the wall of the church by the SS Galicia soldier?
Rezuny Bandits won the Polish Lviv
100% because of Bandera won the Polish Lviv
Ukrainian city of Lviv is not Polish. Likewise, I can say that the Poles took in August of Ukrainian Chelm
you can only say the word shit is Ukrainskie!! Lviv was and is POLISH city under a temporary occupation of the Ukrainian shepherds!!
And it's called European culture? "Shit", "shepherds" - what words I'm curious who you are, because even the shepherds are more kulturalniejshi from you. If you have something against this, the Ukrainian city of Lviv is, I'll prove it to you and not offend me. For my part I can say, for example, the city of Lviv and Chelm were founded by Prince Danylo Galyckogo Ukrainian. You see, I gave you the fact that these cities were founded Ukrainians. Now it's your turn ...
I heard that founded the tryzuby Krakow, you write the stories themselves, and only you believe in the present .. enough in the topic, goodbye and greet
Goodbye because zapierdzales up and you have nothing to say :))))
Goodbye because of banderowskimi chachlami is not discussed!
Jebal flag pigs))) puppy on his mangy snout)))
do not fuck bitch banderowska, as in Poland manure forks Flip Polish command men to understand :)))
You also endo chachlacka me understand it well))) learned Polish Polish listening to commands of the Lord who told you to dispose of the manure out of the barn :))) PS Flag Jebal pigs)))
Stepan Bandera is a plain criminal and criminal! He wanted to fraternize with Hitler in the name of "samostijnej Ukraine". He wanted to be the regional HITLERKIEM! UKRAINE shame!
Huja the Polish flag should immediately lose after the announcement of the judgment before 1939, as he sat in Bereza Kartuska.But his death penalty commuted to life imprisonment, as it turned out it was a disastrous decision for Poland and Polish people residing in the Borderlands.But not escaped justice and death sentence executed by KGB agent in Munich.
Poles do not come, the Poles were there for over 600 years.
Pierdolniety young rezun!
shut the fuck up fagot and sitting on his obsranej ukraine!
what an idiot ... flajersie in stretched, though drawn strength from the 90 :)
as he spits: D 
Ways executed murders of innocent children and women testify to the primitive psyche of an animal or devil worship. Maybe Bandera and his companions were normal household Satanists. Poles chose Queen Mary for the Polish and Ukrainians chose Lucifer the King of Ukraine!!!!!!And the trident in the emblem of Ukraine is simply Tooth satan!
carefully!Jebal him and the rest of those bastards with the upa dog
The flag, a murderer of children and women, old people want to enter Europe?Just wait until you zloji dupe Russia.Hehly, koleszki Nazis.Disgrace!!!
What kind of threat to the UPA Polish children were killed in the churches 11th of July 1943 in Volhynia? What threat was the baby of Huta Pieniacka The walls of the church shattered by the SS Galicia soldier? 
Banderovite dogs and Russian whores WON FOR URAL!
POLAND and Europe salvaged from the big dogs Banderovite Russian famine of whores and then these animals Banderovite killed thousands of people who rescued them.Volyn - POLAND and Europe remembers!ruth bitch and bastard Banderovite of civilization east, JSB for URAL FROM EUROPE!GLORY Poland, Europe, Latin civilization and NATO to the Urals!
carefully!Jebal him and the rest of those bastards with the upa dog
Huja the Polish flag should immediately lose after the announcement of the judgment before 1939, as he sat in Bereza Kartuska.But his death penalty commuted to life imprisonment, as it turned out it was a disastrous decision for Poland and Polish people residing in the Borderlands.But not escaped justice and death sentence executed by KGB agent in Munich.
All banderowskim szmatom-dick in morde.
which country, the hero-shame
You write in Russian, so - you know the language outside the Ukrainian or Ruthenian his enemy! You write that Putin and Medvedev are evil Russians. Agreed - these were people NKVD / KGB /. Some Ukrainians are or have been even worse - Stepan Bandera - according to you is a hero who fought for SAMOSTIJNA UKRAINE? For Poles, it is plain from the hands bandit Polish and Ukrainian unurzanymi blood! Thought and development that is not chauvinistic Ukrainian TYPICAL! Regards,
When in the early fifties zniecierpliwili Russians already chasing the woods for banderowcami, hundreds gathered around the UPA captured criminals to Kiev "Kreszczatiku" and ... drove after them with tanks. Such a "signal" immediately given all the news, from the Ruthenian no jokes, the jokes are over. I passed the trouble of UPA "as hand takes away"
as you ponder everything ... right-pride is worogiem man,, not man's but his pride worogiem,, pride ....Ludi tamping it is not from God but from the Devil ...,,, ..A man to love another man should not kill ...
Who was the occupiers? Clearing and Ukrainians are the same ..Where is Poland that were Germance ...Glade built Kiev,, dfawno ago, and ostali August, is now som Ukranicy,,, the second Glade were Catholics,,, Lithuanians were occupiers .. patom reversed on one land of the Republic,, I from Ukraine 15 centuries pryszli Glade (Ukrancy ) on the dip ... it dziasiaj you call Poles,, My som not kaim okupanty his country is Ukraine, Religion zdjelala two lands, killed Flag for Germancow, not for us
I tjeba ponial,, good people enjoy his country, but you do not understand that Ukraine is Poland ...Innsza name only ...Today in Ukraine pryjezdzaja molode lude and learn from Krakow, Warsaw,, Poznan their garody,, towns ...That it is true which now goes ..My som one nation but two land ..
Ukrainians are heroes!! Hail from Latvia!
Credible source, plenty of it, for example: Wladyslaw Siemaszko and Ewa Siemaszko - "The genocide committed by Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish population of Volhynia 1939-1945" Hitler was exctly the same freedom fighter. He fought for German freedom from all enemies like drafts of Versailles, Leaque of Nations, Subhumans, etc. Alies.
Ukrainian fascists as far going to get?
Tadeusz Kostsyushko fought for Polish freedom was also a fascist?
? How can you sing it, be proud of it. Flag crimes choked his fight with Your independence. Listen to what they say old people, do not lie to you. This is the best teachers ever. Flag Poles not only murder, but also you, the Ukrainians. 
No please, beautifully ... 
Poor Ukrainian nation. Still live in lies and hatred.
You should collect the names of those in uniform banderites,,, Maybe it's time for them to stand trial ..Photographs are needed for the diagnosis of ... addresses of residence, which is currently doing,, vczym we do,, all participants have the ceremony should be carefully recorded
Poles are themselves guilty of our policy towards Ukraine is politically correct and the Russians no longer very much. 26-11-2010 on the news was news and information on the reconciliation of Ukraine Ukraine which continues to promote the heroes of criminals OUN-UPA B muck straight from hell fascism and Ukraine today that a small Piekiełko.Reconciliation can not be a lie.
Aug. fish spoils from the head. If the fathers of the nation in fear all 'round bow, then quickly poprzeganiaja their children. Only the truth can lead to an agreement. O Lord God, send us another Pilsudski, otherwise his whole work of ruin be turned in until he Wawel shaken.
JKI nation such memory, history and heroes. I wish we could be brothers, but the trash is no consensus europe!!
@ 1Zoltar they have messed up the heads of various agitators who have been active since the nineteenth century, Poland did not have teeth like a reborn .... for Bandera Poles are allies of Moscow! For us, the people educated by Moscow!!
What does this have to be a mess? Surely this cat Polish Flag and the OUN-UPA are murderers and psychopaths. Polish eastern territories forever!
Photo. the current state of the monument: 
The widespread of l.90 s knowledge of historical publications and uncensored Internet dot: OUN and UPA genocide, and the image of the media and visitors doswiadzenia Poles Ukraine dot: 
Ukrainians, the first to hell for murder of Polish children.
Why just Ukrainians, maybe let's start this with a fascist organization is responsible for it and the people in its ranks accounted for only 1% of the Ukrainian people, not to mention the Ukrainians for Zbrucz (real Ukraine), did not want and do not want to have anything to do this cholota .In addition, all of Bandera were Polish citizens and crimes committed against your own state.
thesis outright brilliant ... in which a concentration camp by the Nazis imprisoned Hitler's war almost an inch? :) 
Thank you for your courage and show us the history of the Ukrainian version
Dmowski = Stalin = Hitler. Flag even his state did not have. A Polish Lviv except maybe in some big cities the parallel.
Ukrainian cutscene quality too: D
Not all of those are Ukrainians
This fucked up nacionalisci
There is no bad or good nations, are only evil and good people. My family from the grandmother survived only because a Ukrainian neighbor warned them and told to run away - said he will come in the night.Rzeczeczyna fled from the village in Volhynia.I only hope that the murderers and monsters who killed defenseless people and particularly vulnerable children, women and old people will burn in hell and never their souls no rest!!!!!!
Lie and a provocation. The video - ordered products to order from Moscow. Purpose - to always argue our nations. UPA fighters were not sadists and murderers. It was the same people's army and <U+0410> K!
ssgalicein militia was formed from crashing, so what was this strange?In the same division warsaw ss so in August showed off that they shot some germany, I suggest the history of science
Before you recommend to someone proposes a science of history yourself get acquainted with her - SS 
Of course, it comes with 29 divisions SS 
ss galizein to the end was holding the Germans to samosiennej wikrainy
they were Germans and collaborators received weapons from them, with whom they could to show the public the death penalty
You write about the UPA? to read the what happened to the Huta Pieniacka where the UPA along with the SS (unit composed of the Ukrainians) together killed Pieniacka Huta village, so we could easily walk to the SS and weapons as more time murder
I do not understand why the slaughtered children and women? How can we build on this foundation of national identity.
@ KolejacekWolyn and Podolia wanted to, and not because they have any churches burzyli
That's why I say: why this propaganda about the churches? One must be able clearly to admit before the world: yes, the hated Poles and therefore their wyrznelismy. 
Cowards never admit to errors of the past, the lack of other heroes will be honored and the devil czyt.bandere.
read: Carolina Lanckorońska - Wspomniemia war, Norman Davies - Europe at War 1939-1945. No simple Victory. <U+0406> Then we'll talk!
Poor Ukrainian nation. Still live in lies and hatred.
I listen to hard rock, but I do not hate the ukraine karat rules cool and patriotic piece
Bandera was a Jewish-German-Ukrainian whore and gay kids who killed and raped the girl. 
Thanks Karat, gave me what I would give is not no other school
thesis outright brilliant ... in which a concentration camp by the Nazis imprisoned Hitler's war almost an inch? :)  
End your heroism you hangman and murdering Poles!
That's why I say: why this propaganda about the churches? One must be able clearly to admit before the world: yes, the hated Poles and therefore their wyrznelismy. 
Ukraine: The Polish mob murdered Jews in LwowieWiecej on slander Ukrainians invite you to monitorpolskislowian.
Yet we pick what! Only Poland will become strong, without some postkomuchów in the government!
21 thumbs down gave the children banderites dogs that live today and want to pick Krakow!
Download it somehow?
@ BursztynowySzlak ridicule little man ... Everyone is fighting for her. Was the war and as Ukrainians and Poles killed. Speaking of the poles is shining lie to yourself and everyone who reads this! 
You describe yourself as a superman and behave worse than an animal ... I agree that most of the Lviv's Polish, but what's next? How many tanks you 
more than what you want?You stole our land, we still want to be proud of bandits rob ... If not for Poland is that you Turks or Tatars drowned in blood
Say what you want, but I want reconciliation, and some have only incitement to dislike. What stands in the way of an agreement? Listen to the tone 
We have sold Ruthenian now want reconciliation?
What kind of event in question, to the end because I do not know what's going on?
And even if it was really as you say it is, after all, wants reconciliation.
No, I did not, fuck other nations. Only POLAND
Tomorrow se dog pile, Ukrainian name it and I will not be output.Polish only Poland, for you must REZUN-open zoo and keep you there in cages away from civilized people monsters!!Donating Polish bitch!!!!!!!!!!!!
Poles killed dozens of civilians ok max (!) the so-called. retaliatory actions. UPA cancer fell from 200 thousand people equate ... lying to yourself and everyone who reads this! 
@ BursztynowySzlak Man, you're retarded. I live in Poland and I know already some of which not one person you during the war after her doing. See the Pavlokoma, Malkowice and many others. Thousands murdered by your army. And these stories are so cwaniaczkom I sell you ... What to Lvov is that some time was Polish, but that native Ukrainian city. As industry and Jaroslaw. From where do you think the name of Jaroslaw? Who built by Lviv? Who part was built?
Boy, you're not going down. I do not know where to start, because I have not I heard so many lies in such a short speech. From the beginning, 
You know, we like to deduce and come from Kievan Rus, Kiev was in the end, and who have lived for centuries 
Nations evolve from one another, or are released as a result of some events of historical reveal some differences that have grown into a major. Whatever the origin of the Ukrainians and Poles, however many suffered from nothing justifies genocide! It is as simple as 2 +2.
Nothing justifies genocide, just as there is not any reason to blame someone living today Ukrainians about those crimes.
Ihor Anatolijowycz Loza. High School. Juzef Bema in Warsaw. Gówniaz. It must already be suicidal teeth his own name sign. Look back rezunie, on his honor, I swear to you I'd find you. And now I know where to look for .. and did not get out of this alive.See you
Who grew up?! so call POLISH land occupations? Lviv has always POLAND! Tanks to Kill Banderovite bitch!! Like the Third Reich stationed fuck the occupiers of our land ....!
Stanisławów Ivano Frankivsk joined idizsiejszy because he is Polish Hetman Potocki founded in honor of his son
you know who else is going to betray us and on us wypnie?These Ukrainian as dogs, slask ... sad sad and you know why? for real. Even the flag like they only reversed ...
By the way, with the people not present at the monuments, and praise, for example, a deserter and political Zero Wladyslaw Sikorski.
Ukraine does not have the history and heroes of every country wants to have 
Ukraine has a beautiful story. Under the Polish and Russian scepter of the change of course. When it worked the same? Fell each time. As you can see in someone's story Berle wonderful. However, we do not have heroes.
Cos this is such a beautiful land lie fallow in Volhynia and Polish occupiers could somehow cultivate them.
I have somewhere political correctness! Should be taught in schools above all truth. Under communism, there was no talk about Katyn for the price "friendship" with the Soviets. Now we are not talking about Volhynia, the price of "friendship" with Ukraine. I hope this banderowska part of Ukraine will end the same way as the Soviet Union! 
It is not normal to high school, was one inch lesson about the Holocaust, but about Wolyn there was no view. I do not want to go out for some anti-Semite, but what we, Poles oczymy up in such detail about the Jewish martyrdom, even if its not fully we are able to introduce. Germany and the USSR are. I ask that we learn about the history of the United States, and does not even mention the genocide in the Polish population by Lithuanian and Ukrainian criminals? 
Because of this, and communism remained on the ground in the form of Polish post-communist government. And the government is the Jews. Video elite Jewish - Polish all shows. We destroy the national identity of martyrs of themselves doing the Palestine for 50 years as well as treat them treated by 5 Although we we pay them compensation for the hell knows what ... They Palestine? How did! Surely the terrorists that Jewish children with cancer gina. The U.S. is also a country of Zionism. Unfortunately, large footprint and here.
Now you have ethnically homogeneous Syndication what? Was to be a paradise and what is it? Poles flee for work for a multinational France, Germany, Great Britain. Do you have the same thinking as the UPA ideologues who sought the freedom of the local extermination of Poles, Russians and Jews. Take the to Ukraine and see what came out ... even less than our jednonarodowej Polish, because at least part of Poles in the murdering of minorities was negligible compared to what they were doing did the Ukrainians.
it is difficult to forgive each other, but in the end Ukrainians are our neighbors, and also Slavs. Forgive does not mean forget. But we should take care of a good relationship with them. Wise piece, propsy!
Germany does not want to fuck Slavs SSM Nazis and the German people just do not forget about the Poles. Germany Aug. us because we were afraid that the people will never give blood because we have not pee. Therefore memory insurgents from all over the country should be. Let's not forget about the soldiers gave the family what to fight for Syndication free.
Bitchin note! Chelm remembers!Greetings from the eastern Polish!
Accounting for war crimes in August with their official recognition and the opportunity to commemorate the victims of the way formal. August is not going to make us now from your fascist government got off but do not worry, we waited naKatyn Volyn it and will wait until it rozliczycie.Especially the massacre at Katyn beats Volhynia.No one in Bandera cruelty is not raised, the only place
You have to remember but Poland now has other problems, it bothers me that the Jews do what they want, and everyone believes that smieciom. Poles also shines in Russian are not too infused and would murder them, but Eastern countries to total cattle kill women and children ... I understand the military but helpless family?. Poland then was a very broken though it was supposed AK and some cool action on Bandera. Maybe I'll tell foolishness but we had to join the Third Reich and ruin the entire east of the Jews.
It was not until the end that is the cause and Bandera Ukrainians killed, the truth is that the Lions should be Polish and Churchill had had enough of war and agreed to the proposals of Stalin when setting limits.In Ukraine, more than half do not want to Bandera a national hero was some large percent have no opinion. The Ukrainian school (maybe not all) teach that Poland occupied Lviv. No country is without flaws murdered Poles also on call for Napoleon, and not only that, but deserve an apology.
Have Lviv and Vilnius fuck!
Why pajacu provoke? Johannesburg, but in the struggle, not like you!
Gdansk is a Polish city which was before the partitions of Poland.After the partitions and before the war was a free city of Gdansk, not German. August slinily Krauts always on Gdansk and access to the sea but it is never their city, and fortunately it was not returned to Polish after the war.Because before it was free city. A Wroclaw is nalezalpo war in August we shed blood for millions and billions exported from Polish. It's still not enough ...We should get as much as the Jews.
Something seems to me that someone here zajebal Tadka idea;]
all rap pieces of patriotism, truth, that they do not turn out to media, etc are immediately zajebany idea of ​​tadka? human being, wake up. it is as if to say that the company zajebal CS idea to rap on the street
History does not change, now before the white European countries is another threat 
Karat issued a horny with a piece of POZDRO REAL!
Fucking bit, and even sending a praise worthy. 
You have reason to say so? Looks forward to.
Without these, it's not about the whole country or a nation because we know that people everywhere are all different. Here lazi the ideologies of some motherfuckers POSR. It's the same stereotypes like this, that each of us is a thug without a conscience because we wear tracksuit. If we continue to wade in so senseless hate to slay each other in August. You want to be the same as those motherfuckers? I doubt.
An account of the crimes is primarily an apology from the authorities do not receive, but from the people, yes, I myself sorry for those who follow in August stating murdered Ukrainians and Poles and Ukrainians. I would also pass the only place where this glorification SS and UPA Galizen really just took over the west and it's right on the border (among other Lviv). This is because Svoboda achieved its nearly 10% of the vote probably only owes its nicely-looking terms. Ukraine is not crashing!
If you're a better man than I am, although some specimen culture. In Poland live 11 years longer - I know the anthem, celebrating Independence Day - Poland is already my second home - but do not forget about who really I am - because from there origin. Stop judge the whole Ukrainian nation for the number of ... because if the Polish government in power is the OP, I understand that you yourself have chosen them to Poland ruled. (Yes, such a provocation at the same time presenting your reasoning - you do not want reconciliation.)
All the time trying to get you to realize the upa also murdered Ukrainians themselves - have found themselves such as the Poles wanted to help - why the hell no one remembers about those who also went to the sand to help the neighbors?! Why do you - who claims to be holy - do not want to shake hands with people who admitted crashing wine and want to kick them out of their own history as a mistake? Why do I have to leave the land on which maybe my ancestors once lived, in the end, Poland and Ukraine was once unity.
Poles asked why they can not live peacefully in western Ukraine. Probably just by those who glorify crashing, but I have a question, what connects me with them outside of nationality? I do not support nor svobody, or those who so pompously celebrating anniversaries associated with the fascist organization - and even though I'm set on a par with them. So what is it? Try for a moment to apply their reasoning to the Poles.
You can not prove a bit of culture.
Not taken, I have somewhere quarrels with someone who would not accept arguments. But I was talking about personal culture - you should be aware of the need to respect everyone and everyone should be heard only after the judge. Honestly I got bored already is - You do not agree with me, I do not agree with you. Have a nice day wish you and Regards.
I wish good luck. :)
Ah ... Cala my say was designed to raise awareness that not all Ukrainians perceive upa as heroes or soldiers fighting for Ukraine ... So, we not only upowcy would murder you (and you not only you, as I mentioned earlier), and these are not our 
Educate colleagues after the UPA in first and then we speak because few people write such stupidity from the massacre.
For me the East is one fucking Russians Fuck Fuck them ..
worth it especially now publicize the affair, because Bandera who got into parliament in Ukraine. great piece
Ukrainians do not Banderovites ... I recommend also read about the murders on the Ukrainians who disagree with their policies. These are not our (or at least my) heroes!
It is known only from the Ukrainian murdered by the UPA for having not renounced Polish wife is like cutting the media pila.
We remember all the victims of the eastern borderlands of Ukrainian criminals by the UPA-B, UPA-M, the CNS of the soldiers who fell in the battle for the eastern lands of all mothers and children who have no possibility of defense were beaten in their own homes.We remember ....... ALWAYS ONLY POLISH Vilnius and Lvov 
I also remember the criminals murdered by Polish Ukrainians in Pavlokoma.
It was a reprisal! AK deliberately attacked villages favorable to banderowcom because it was their source of supply! It was a last resort, otherwise they could not stop it. Similarly, the action was "Wisla" 
Just Ukrainians say that the UPA action in retaliation for centuries oppressing the Poles. What is at fault for the child Ukrainskie shoot Pole? Thus, the fault crossed pila teenager in 1943 by UPAowskich criminals? A crime is a crime and you have a warped psyche hard to write about the murders that it was retaliatory. At that time, the NKVD zacieralo hands because the Poles and Ukrainians performed their job.
What are you talking about? The oppression of the Poles? Do you not distinguish the feudal oppression of ethnic conflicts and ethnic cleansing? 
Massacre of Poles in the borderlands he could try to prevent the Polish government before 1943. For me, the shooting of a child is not just a matter of the history of morality. Is the criminal was in the Army uniform and UPA does not matter. Centuries of oppression of Ukrainians by Poles before 1939 is probably obvious to a person who speaks on crime Volhynia, because these gruesome massacres did not come from nowhere. Stocks took exactly where did the 
What the Polish government before 1943? This in-exile, and the pre-war? Believe me I realize that the Polish policy towards ethnic minorities before the war was ... different, maybe not entirely right ... but what can justify the genocide? Closing schools, institutions? What is your conversion rate? For one school assassinate thousands of Ukrainian women and children? Why were they guilty of? AK must distinguish which attacked to prevent the murders, and the UPA, which attacked to destroy the whole nation
Polish policy towards minority before the war and in its time - the Volyn massacre was not different just simply wrong. I think that we should distinguish AK from the UPA not only murderers and heroes on both sides, because as to the murderers were in AK margin as opposed to the UPA unless you agree?
How can I prevent the murder was different in the Borderlands? Otherwise than favorable to pacify villages UPA. DA SIE NO! Give me the master, how else can protect the civilian population? They did it to save his fellow countrymen! The Polish inhabitants of the village of Ukrainians do not attack! UPA crimes and genocide is genocide, and not attempt to 
If the Ukrainian Jews lived Ukraine USA upomnialyby August had lived Ukrainian Ukraine-EU Poles tried to pull the Poles, as well as ... May monuments criminals and the whole industry in Russian hands (with us at least diversification in this issue).
A land that cultivated gentlemen-Polish exploiters lie fallow ...
Ukraine has two million Poles persecuted by Bandera. It's not enough oO
Just like that: Banderowca is nothing but a nationalist. Which of the nationalists 
Out of my country niedorznieta Ukrainian swinio.was rezunskie scum you all deported. Not people and animals, and subject barbazynskie lice.In what place you live rezunie?Maybe we meet and talk live with that? 
I think that I turn in the cultural MEASURE way, so I expect the same response. Tell me if you know of such 
rezun in Warsaw? :/ in. Take your family and get the fuck out of SWOLOCZ CAPITAL!Your division she helped pacify Warsaw Uprising Ukrainskie you scum.Warsaw big city .. I studied there for a year.How Cie rezunski dog to meet you as you piece of shit przetrace with you your whore mother ruth not know.Se and on your profile picture with you copy remember shit teeth.Won the Polish bitch! Poland is Poland.This is not a place for dogs of Ukrainian.
I pardon 
Is Poland rusinku you look at ZOO teeth Ukrainian August swolocz hiding here? You like animals you were!! As you read this to me in kieszy knife .. as you open the space on the grid to meet the kacapie not survive this! Trip to the Ukraine and his Nazi in there home madz in Ukrainian! And put LWOW thief! Poland is not a place for rezunskie scum! Deport you-that's what! And what wogule for Rusk name, Igor
Culture of expression in some I see a very high level. With knowledge of the rest of the story as well. Read the little bit that you can then enlighten, because for now there is no point discuss ....
hey, my grandmother must shake carpets, 5zl'll give you even wash the floors
Ah ... August despises work, right? Of course, the great noble lord, as long as the drill bit does not get dirty, but no longer needed as a great view fall down 
I can be the worst Pole Pole, but even the worst is better than the best Ukrainian
Most Poles prefer silence and we have democracy, or probably a long time.
Instead of praise murderers better idea what the position would be an Polish and Ukraine now had before 1943 
Polish retaliatory actions is up a few hundred people. UPA crimes are almost 200 thousand! If a child has been killed in these actions it was the exception. At UPA, it was a routine. Army attacked to defend. UPA attack to destroy, destroy the entire nation, they themselves claimed that the Poles do not have to die, they have to suffer. The purpose of this was intentional extermination of the entire nation in the Borderlands. The purpose of the Home Army was by all possible means try to stopped by this Gehenna is the diametric difference!
A few hundred too much, if this does not agree at all do not write because I want to discuss about the history of morality and not through the prism of nationalism.
I also do not support the killing of women and children! Do not make me such a genocidal! But if someone tries to compare the crimes in Pavlokoma the whole Volyn massacre is a feeling that either do not know the subject, or to fool me. 
I do not write, was a crime in Pavlokoma reprisal on a small scale. I understand the reasons, but it does not mean that in any way can be justified. Merry Christmas, buddy.
End justifies the means. In my opinion reprisals and sometimes necessary to protect the population here are associated, so it wrote. The purpose of this massacre may have been one and the other and I think it was. Also, I wish Merry Christmas! :) 
By the way, is in accordance with the ideology of the government in exile, crime in Pavlokoma has the same range as the massacres in Volhynia? Because here and there murdered citizens of the Second Republic.
I do not think, because of the same THEME!.Theme Ukrainians: 
Good piece and a true story!
made available, it went in the world.
Victims family thank the youth for memory. Several hundreds of thousands of Poles, women, children, cruel death has been murdered by OUN-UPA and Ukrainian peasants! Such torture, which he did not see the world-and they worship the murderers as heroes-a disgrace to all Poles - disgrace! 
Karat well with are people like you!
so record on Poland and Poles, and the Poles pats on the streets ... Ukrainian, Russian dogs moved in our streets as if they were at home
You have to show them whose the streets ;)
This is the truth about the Ukrainians!!!!
Karma! it is called a real muse!
Fuck Ukrainian, Russian, Jewish Fuck fuck fuck these need to be remove from nasazej beautiful land ...
Really? And then you woke up.
And you saw how bys Ukrainian-Ruthenian the match with this flag what would you do, we fight for honor!
Well you have added to it, because someone has already blocked that also has removed the track from the contractor channel 
After the Second WS Stalin at the head of the NKVD did the same thing with them. Malo fields of the Ukraine almost starved to death, so rather than fight the real enemy, which they preferred Stalin was killing innocent people does not constitute any threat.But it's still worth a second syphilis, and remember you.
Download or share, because I fucking can remove.
Exactly, the truth hurts.
Strong but very good bow my head.
All Ukrainskie fuck rozjezdzac roll!
good hint of? What are you, whore, piece dody give?
My grandfather fought with the UPA is a Pole, deported him in Kiev and was little to Siberia and incorporated it into the soviet army in Poland, escaped and hid in the woods.
Remember remember! BIG RESPECT!
Finally someone is not afraid to mention that, for high school and elementary school teacher of history only in elementary school was not afraid to tell me about Volyn massacre, the school is swept under the carpet and high school teacher, he explained to me that we were the invaders and to make any ak similar crimes. Reconciliation with the Ukrainians, yes, but not zaklamywanie truth. Once I regain Vilnius Grodno Lviv and other parts, and no leftist Polish whore in that we do not interfere. Estimate the transfer
never about the school you are not super-cs heard that youtube you do not have to write it erased in English
Poland because Jews hold fast paw on everything so I will not know anything ...
Dark Zone educates and entertains. :) Good production! The fluke.
Fucking message