
We sho Yobnuti dwellers mapping voyuvat! Tai-School Todi: Cola Zebuvat Nada! A KGB tse pereoditie in Bindiravtsev! Stalin personally piridyagavsya to Hitler! A blood red one hand he has as much as much as much Chirvoni!We zebuem Ato Hitler and Ibalu us! We told him we tse: we are our comrade Hitler! Lo and behold, Stalin personally! Drinks krovushki myrnyh our residents!We Cola zebuem:-We myrni people! And from Coke vzhe Fyshisty zebuvat STEEL! We like them they chimadany nosym!Huyak! and in Argentina! Chystym them boots! 
Stalin? Why, do not you know, hundreds of millions of dead, and of their children, and he did chakhokhbili ate, but it was not enough and he agreed with Hitler that he would have started a war to kill more! Again, 20,000 Poles shot, however, only found in 1800, just rest, he ate with Beria! Ukrainians, together with the Volga famine Morillo! A son would not trade for Paulus, Trotsky with an ice ax zahuyachil, and many other of his enemies, and his henchmen byliZhukov, Rokossovsky, Vatutin <wbr> -))
Come on more .. whom he threw out of the observers?! :-D
Chorten YAKY throwing CE VІDEO - Put KOLUMBІYSKU Ties.WHO WRITE-TSІKAVO SCHO CE Takeo 
yes all because Russia is now okkupirovla Ukraine, not Turkey or Poland. It is elementary, who is an occupier, and acts against the indigenous nation.
Bandera - COWARD AND PRIDATEL. I saw a huge, vooruzhonnuyu fashiskuyu army and decided that they would win and just as the Germans came up with the idea natsialisticheskuyu, that Terminated their atrocities, he hoped that the Germans after winning him a little autonomy to stand out and it is they will be six. NU horseradish Nitsche, failed. The coward against innocent Ukrainians fought. I hope he's in hell sunbathe. And his followers are prikryvatsya NATO. Pants and zavisniki.
Chtoli until you fuck you talking about? that what you are so jerky and nervous .. you take your time - let vyebut carefully, cock, and then uzhrasskazhesh wanted.That's all in the semen smear, vaflenok, take your time - enjoy his favorite thing
Thank you, Michael.Amuse.And about ROA prosvyatil. :-) Great thanks. :-))) I would like to conclude by saying Filatov: "In Russia, with the Pocono centuries no judgment on the fools." Worried by the number of imbeciles. :-(
Listen clown, you're sick in the head a crippled old man, has already pulled all his whining. Well, if you still bitch lived in one of the former scoop, so you got away from this thing away to Portugal and its colonies, and from there it stinks. So everyone can like you - knock out, and the other countries to stink like a scoop was good, and who is to blame. And to come here bitch weak? So, sit carrion at home and do not bark.
Dear Elah burns.You will quote you the same: "... funny to read your tantrum. Netsernurno shouting and swearing around the corner - the inheritance of physically and mentally handicapped adolescents. And you - the best proof. "Sometimes you are wonderfully self-critical.Good luck!
I'm not saying it's sho Russia the most brutal fucking cocks despicable country and just take it odna.esli America they, in short postepennno Indians killed, mostly disease and other garbage out there = killed for sport Millon buffalo - so no grub. Indians and Bandera case on dick - they remember their dead, they are white amers the most vile people on earth. and they do not forget. but we are here --- all bad things come from zasranoy Rashi. and the difference is that the U.S. has recognized these 
Russian is just a rabble alkagolikov
Do not forget that this pen I'll poke two eyes, you know usually these trolls like you break off from the phrase-I FSUs your writings, I believe it's even funny, imagine how you are now drooling, though we must pay tribute to you, you're not a fool, of you make good soap))
What are you going start, poor fuckers, when "freedom" will win? Well, first of all, in all the polls you do not hold out either before natsdemov nor to regionals. And secondly, even if he wins, not Ukraine will grow areas, but rather to lose. Since the South-East will get out of the jurisdiction of Ukraine. 
Kula ... well you sdrisnula - scribble, wonder what all the manure you pushed 20 years National and party svolota ....
I'm from western Ukraine. Not a nationalist, I hate Nazis. But the facts are simple - the Lenin monument was built on slabs buried Jews, not Bender. That Russian occupants killed my countrymen, and Bender and his associates killed the occupants in their own land, just as the Germans and Russians were killed on their land.
Well that's what one would hate dokazatVy independent Ukraine - so those who fought for it, for you podonkiS this and we had to start
Yes, it's the KGB KGB worked beautifully and skillfully. And one more butcher is one less for the second time.Bandera dog and the death of his dog. A Staszewski just became podkobluchnikom and the result on the face.For shmonku not only betrayed his colleagues and the people of the country passed recall Cleopatra ..
SSovtsy for Ukraine? are you stoned ebtdey
In Ukraine, only two indigenous nations: Ukrainians and Tatars, and all other comers, including Katsap that mass appeared in our land, only 200 years ago. There are Hungarians and Romanians who live in their historical lands, but they are too small to take into account. Tatars also relatively small, and therefore should dominate the language of the titular nation. France is full of nations, including those living in their historical lands, but across the country there is only one French. 
Greetings from Bulgaria!Glory to the heroes!88 
Well he saddles kakraz in konslagere. Well, then tell me what the Germans murdered in SWNTs at Babi Yar?
True ear hurts!
it is false Muscovites Muscovites teroristov much silent about teror communists!!! Muscovites scum scum and animals moskalskie policy! 
Even at Kuban I Chechens do not watch. Are you a hefty confusing. Ljubo sluhay The NATO as litter, wrote all poebotinu, that otmazatsya. You do not even crest, you Austro-Hungarian Jew and worship. Wisniewski flips in his grave when you're a Hebrew hero Little Russia called, tobish Benderu.
Do not grunt PIG servile and that the stench from your insides ZGNIVSHIH FULL UT. STINKS smelly bastard BUGAGAGA suck ONLY YOU HAVE a worthless creature I SHIT YOU IN drooping crest and Rzhu OVER YOU AS YOU THERE BULTYHAESHSYA POGAVKIVAYA Sometime I will destroy you and drooping over you scoff ALL BECAUSE YOU AND YOU stupid hick Shively WORMS IN YOUR BRAIN INSTEAD skull know it and die with anger and resentment HOW YOUR dying great-grandmother and great-grandfather WHEN TO SIBERIA GOR.RUD.PAHALI as livestock
SS Nazis is Galitsina, nothing to Stalin and Beria, all is not finished off, the poor.
with what you've decided that we ukrkaintsy unhappy that sent Russian tries in 1991? Yes, we are so happy we can not find the words - our parents and grandparents, which cut Russian Barbarian Horde, now look at us from heaven, and do not quite appreciate that the long years of armed struggle against the Ukrainians, the Golden Horde (Russia) have not been in vain, and we, Ukrainians finally became independent from the Russian barbarians. The day will come when we get back our land and Kuban and Stavropol and Smolensk, Kursk, Voronezh, Bryansk - it will all be.
You ukroblyadey representative. Dumb like a sheep. Since 1996, Belarus is a part of the "Union of Russia and Belarus." Sent, ahahahah. Here's a look at how your Ukroblyadskaya pseudo-power heals, when Putin will send you and break off all economic relations with you. Start right in the middle ages, scum.
Chavo?Clore full of a pure idea. Pridur. Vsralas who your fucking needs Ukraine.
Zabychen you, so you're a fagot!
Stepashke should be assigned twice (and thrice amozhet) Hero!
Were in Russia the heroes who tried to conduct a war of liberation. But, alas, the great-grandchildren of these heroes have betrayed the memory of ancestors, turned into a herd of zombies hysterical trolls. Yes one Tambov uprising that costs! But it seems that the best gene pool fled abroad in 1917, a part of the gene pool was executed during Stalin's repressions ... Were some small "hamsters" who do not know their history. 
suck, Shafco roundnose. Up against the wall you, fag, the place must
Russian pig not brothers Ukrainians.
I'll put your children a Jewish ... Ladyboy Chukchi.
Yeah =))), the Commissioner had some Jews ...
What you get with a slut!Whore is whore
to write Russian fagot if you want me to I answered your hahlyatskuyu parody of Russian not Poneman!!
I talked specifically about Bandera from western Ukraine, who only knew how to fight civilians, along with the Germans engaged executions of civilians, jackals, they are the jackals.
And your bums can be found in any part of the world .. You can even send them in Russian, they agree for a bottle))))))
stupid generation 
Destroyed systematically broken Jews. Between 5 and 7 January 1943 Lvov ghetto officially became a Jewish camp. Up to 20,000 Jews, including members of the Jewish Council disbanded, were shot. The Germans announced that the ghetto can only Jews to "work card." During sweeps ghetto the Germans burned the houses in which Jews were hiding. Many were burned alive.
Glory nashіy Ukraіnі!
Jews, is the glory of Molotov Mehles Lev Trotsky.Chocks Beria and Stalin and Dzerzhinsky Pole.
Here's more: "And then," the people who are in close relations with Russia would be better off gradually changing and, in the end, set the final terms of the organization of life in the world ", - said the American. More recently, many experts believe the fantastic weather Casey at the fact that the Soviet Union will be reborn in 2010. However, as we see, this prediction is beginning to be realized. ".
You even look like a nickname registered)))))), I have enough sense not to argue?), Decided to try podnasrat?)))) Such a method has proved once again that you have no brain, you'd better go back to watching their porn movies - it's the only thing for which you have brains enough)))).
They came to our land began to loot, rape and kill .. we started zaschischatsya of us for this brand as criminals in Chechnya .. The same was
Quite the contrary. In Russia, Mr Berezovsky himself ravaged the whole of Russia :)) 
Yeah half the country alkashnya vonyuchayu.The second half of the so-called Russian slaves.
Muscovites stupid!! nothing but lies can not tell!! them free Ukraine as a pain in the ass!!
Neither Russia nor Poland does not want to let Ukraine. They do not need a Ukrainian independence. Bandera fought for the independence of Ukraine from Russia, from Poland. alliance with the Germans was - a temporary measure to fight against the Bolsheviks. In 1941, Bandera and Stetsko announced the creation of the Western Ukraine an independent Ukrainian state for which they were arrested by the Nazis. Bandera first sat in prison in Krakow, then Zaksenkaus concentration camp from 1943 to 1944. Bandera dream come true, we live in an independent Ukraine.
Wee krasche divilisya behind him you TER namazano.29 honey-Grenadier Division of the SS "RONA" (1st Russian) 30th Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Russian) Read TER Duzhe tsіkavo!
klazetah not ruin, devastation in my head ...
NІKOLI VIZHEVE NOT THAT PEOPLE, YAKY SPRIYMAЄ TRAKTUVANNYA SVOЄЇ ІSTORІЇ ochima SUSІDA. NІTSSHE
I wonder why Putin and the Russian Orthodox Church has not yet carried out torchlight processions in honor of the Vlasov, ss he fought with the Communist regime)))))
Glory to the heroes of Ukraine!
FSO, keeping close to the Chinese Asian animal :)
It's you vchi history (and geography at the same time, once you HEMA Germany at a time). HEMA Ukraine will soon be due Tipko such as you. Who Stalin was, I know better than you. Those who join Lviv Ukraine. Vbivtsya it was the same as Shukhevych. If not for Stalin, Bandera b still his 'Ukraine' the Poles would beg. And the maximum what he has achieved - is the creation of an independent Volyn, not Ukraine. Ukraine appeared without his help in 1918 and in 1991. So sho, Glory to Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchev!
SALO UKRAINE! HEROYAM FAT! 
In Katsap POPABOL!!RSSUKIE Suck At HACHEY!
And who are you to education? Judging by correspondence - you idiot. Trying to make people? She taught writing your country. Go spit in the mirror and then broke stuff. Katsap still here will teach crest of life, fucker, nuts bend.
Prove it!
ThePepelaz Friday Donetsk District Administrative Court declared unlawful and subject to cancellation of the decree of President Viktor Yushchenko on January 20, 2010 on assignment Ukrainian citizen is not the passport of Poland - Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine. 2:00. back
Stupid cattle, you all nonsense, that does not say a fucking tyagnybok or farionsha
I think, it's silly to consider the protection of their own lands crime .. even if it is against a "brother" who came into your house with a gun in his hand and swear you in love in the dirt vtoptyvaya everything that is holy to you.
Cattle Bandera. It would be necessary to look into the dirty faces, where the pressure can meet face spit. BAY Bandera saves Poltava!
Russian subhuman. And you seem to Ukrainian. You're the most dochelovek.
MDA what propaganda in Russia ... a Babe Interview More lies than truth
Rutskii anton here most shit under the roller)
kakzhe as well? Bandera if Hitler did not cooperate and was arrested the next day and only Melnyk probyvali something the Nazis rabotat.vrut not even blush and try to adjust the Slavonic peoples against fascism druga.russkih scare Ukrainian Ukrainians and Russian communism, wake up this beautiful Slavs mordyhay muddies the water again, not free)))
Bandera - Hero of Ukraine, and the decision to cancel the decree - the political, to rank the Party of Regions in eastern Ukraine. From my subjective point of view, the struggle for independence is the victims. And do not forget, dear comrades, about the repression of torture against the Ukrainians in the east by Russia and the west side of Poland. Hero, and still would not. And who is against - you bring down to Russia (RSSR).
What an embarrassment! Fucking fascist! Few of them all destroyed! Survived to this day, and the fruit of the same moral monsters! History is not correct! Reasonable part of Ukraine will not forget the truth! Our veterans do not have fought for it!
Chi Putin we have no lenin
Nicely said, spot on.South Ukraine the same opinion. All the others just do not know their history.Elementary stories ...
and Shaw yelp --- Russia, (ie Muscovites) over the centuries has proved a very bad hand, tongue tasted lime, then the famine is different and generally garbage. Wait - gas is more expensive than the Germans selling. Putin that maketh. muzzle their own people and cheating.Russia country foul primarily to his. country of fools. enough for them of their land - climb to teach neighbor. ponapihivali their Muscovites during the empire by republics, and those do not even deign to learn the language. that's why you do not want the Balts.
If Bandera killed Melnyk then I Izaura princess. the day before the murder provocative Melnyk Germans allowed to print flyer "brother killing brother." What is the conclusion? Exactly Germans killed by Melnyk by creating animosity between the OUN-M and the OUN-B!
HLOPTSІ, RYATUYTE UKRAЇNU Vid DIKOЇ AZІATSKOЇ ORDI.VІCHNA Glory to the heroes!
"Ukrainians" - a nat-ti does not exist. It is an artificial term coined 20 years ago zapadenskimi notorious Natsik and other oranzhoidami ....PS: It's amazing how lowbrow, write the phrase "Ukrainian king", manages to call someone imbecile. )))
National <U+0301> gp (Fr. nationalisme) - ideology, whose basic principle is the thesis of the value of the nation as the highest form of social unity. Basically nationalism preaches loyalty and devotion to the nation, political independence and work for the good of his people, the cultural and spiritual growth, association of national identity for the practical protection of the living conditions of the nation, its territory of residence, economic resources and cultural values. (Wikipedia)
Bandera, Shukhevych Vlasov idol fag!
That are you and how hundreds of thousands of Russian people razsrelyanyh zamordovanyh NKVD camps as well? or are they too were the Nazis?
I'd have understood and admired even if you were talking about nationalism, it is natural to love their country and their nation. And you dream of the coming of the Messiah in the person of some EU ......... this is beyond stupid. 
... But still, my dear friend Bulgar, but you will know, Chikatilo chewed meat is the living, and the interrogation explained that this was what I saw as his parents ate his brother during the famine .... ( You are somewhat similar to the "hero" ... ( Stepa leave alone the money he transferred the Germans did not bring him happiness for a long time ... ( Better move your hellish demon parade on his grave, and our soldier will not go to the grave - you stink ... (
swear - swear, Russian ... and I - Anglo-Saxon in tihushku laugh))))) and another Shevchenko cite an example, the "Muscovites" - is not the same as that in the "Moscow", that is, living in the city. ... as in his work, "Kateryna" mentions Moskal, Ivan who lived in Kiev .... and much more to you - Russian did not tell you)))
Do not add, and urgently shuruy to the doctors! Do not miss more than my visits a speech therapist, Speech pathologists and psychiatrist! 
"What is not a Russian nazism, fascism?" - Now you have blooms in the West Ukrainian anti-Russian nazism. Why are only your thoughtful reflections on the Russian, CTE so all of your finnougory and Tatars. Russian ethnicity has a number of smaller ethnic groups, dissolved in themselves assimilated. Volga Tatars have made a great contribution to the development of the Great State completely. Among them many converts to Orthodoxy. 
Glory to Russia, death Nedobitko Bandera, prosperity eastern Ukraine and Crimea, the ruin of Galicia
Post below to further confirmation
Che is kotsap, I see your national values, that is to say mats?
In Ukraine and everything sucks and not as we would like. Yushchenko generally did not get any votes, because he sucks did. And no TV is not correct.
That's not bullshit me! (Russian it .. We have seen such Russian in reports from israelskih kibbutz)
What a lie. Rusko is always on the other knocked. where the documents and testimony. and lying about Sheptytsky, he saved almost all Ravin.Russian you will die from your own lie 
That Bandera actually Stephen, and issued a symbol of the nation Apostle - just a dwarf with an inferiority complex and a huge thirst for power. Do not care who was on the Ukrainians and Ukraine. For all his life he has not worked a single day. Is that the foreign intelligence service.
Cradle of Muscovy was bloody quagmire Mongolian slavery, not harsh glory era Normans.And modern Russia is nothing like the transformed Muscovy.Muscovy was raised and grew up in a horrible and infamous School of Mongolian slavery.It only intensified by the fact that it has become virtuoso in the art of bondage.Even after his release, Muscovy continued to play its traditional role of a slave who became a master.K. Marks"; Revelations of the Diplomatic History of the XVIII century (1856-1857)
Katsap remove your truth and in Lviv Rusko shot for a couple of hours 6 7tis. political prisoners and the fact that communists did in the Ukraine in 33 they have to be tossed back in the shoot detstve
... You do not know why the elderly benderasta attacked riot police? - <a Href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(1*60+47);return false;'> 1:47 </ a> what for him eyepieces broke? 
Such processions and in our city are what you think there all going?Only narrow-minded fanatics who in every country there is, I love Russia and nothing will change my mind
Ie comment, and not the message.
Why ..., Russian swallowed? Do you like the new National-benderast? ... And what your buddies when there is nothing to answer khokhlomu go? That would be the name of the video is written in Russian, which is in contempt? ....)))))
And finally-SS Division "Galicia" ("Galicia" was not, it was written in the name of transcription) has been involved in two armed clashes with units of the Red Army, "heroic" battle at Brody, against 60armii, 1 Ukrainian Front, more precisely, against 23str build. and in Slovenia (by coincidence back against the body).Brodsky boiler result is known to all, the almost complete destruction of the division (more 11tys people), absence without leave of the battlefield (sometimes rotami), cases of desertion.
SB
Western Ukrainians - the ideal weight for management ... intelligence and not burdened by their own opinion ...
And why do you think all Ukrainians Bandera? Ukrainians, I did not touch and do not offend. A Bandera criminal, murderer and executioner! And the arguments object to is that you can not! 
must leave the dead to bury their own dead topic is not on the agenda of all the poets and heroes arise during and in the great plan
Well nigh and got fucked, Jew!
bunch of atheists and sinners! (((( 
When this area was above Ukrainian lands? When Give me the time. Just do not Kievan Rus, since it was the Russian state. 
YOU right now, as your grandparents is busy as usual OTSASUETE WELL WHEN DO-kincana your mouth comes and I finished Galicians CREATE OWN COUNTRY, punk-Galychyna and a year really is cock sucking without EAST SO sit and pussy moron aspiring 
It is necessary to be so blunt, you are sent in plain text on the dick, and you do not understand and you climb to talk. You hamadryad Papio hamadryas go on dick.
... Try to infringe upon the rights of Russian-speaking too contraindicated, especially if we are "good neighbors":-D Putin someone shuts his mouth? This is of course you from the outskirts, we can see:-D have a democracy there, and we have totalitarianism:-D myzh all here as prisoners, right?! :-D Putin cheating? Where when and how he cheated?! :) This just screams yes liberastov schizophrenics hear that a peddler Orange contagion McFaul there is talk about porazgovarivat denyuzhku :) 
Do not go to Ukraine, then you Russian guests!Bender for Ukrainians - the hero, as well as for the Russian Stalin ... 
And Ukraine to pick up their ancestral lands Kuban Voronezhschinu and Kurschinu and not unseemly Horde Moscow, Russian called, uvorovali toponym Rus in Kiev in the 17th century. And the empire created together, to be shared. And it is only able to appropriate. Teach the story, read the wiki, looked like the soldiers of Russia according to the testimony of Constantinople chroniclers katsapskie beard and pots were not russichi. Vbey forelock, toupee ... teach materiel ...
Bandera all the holiday May 9 
The book would have looked even righteous
blah .. this is not podosret go nowhere)))
If such a candidate in Lemberg of history, it is doubly sad.No Michael, you do not fuck, and I'm not what you wrote :-) You Michael-imbecile. Good luck, defective :-)
And Bandera killed far more Ukrainians than Russian.Counting?)))) 
Bandera did not fight for independence, it was Hitler's challah and carry out the orders
all Ukrainians to instill that Bandera bad, and that the Nazi regime worse than communism, and that all of Ukraine as a nation do not have ... let the fools believe?We need to make to have RUSSIAN speaking population had more rights than the Ukrainian speaking! ...Durnі moskalі hochut slit nas bogato chogo zrobiti ... whether patrіotom!
Remember yourself and give to others, you will not have nor any state for the reason that you have no permanence.Today you warm at the feet of a master for tomorrow you fascinated by other people's blanket, and so on to infinity, is that "state."That "you" have to hate everything and everyone, as much as possible to get people to "love" for Bandera cancers which their blood relatives.
It seems everything is so festive ... but just do not have that country until a bright future. At least foreseeable. It is better to say nothing. 
And here Teliga? It is under psevdonomom in Munich not hidden, unlike Bandera. And 621 members of the OUN in lihnenshteyne not hiding in the mountains, in contrast to the miller. In general, all as always and at all - selnepodobnye leaders - generals and gray skotinka series.  One monuments and other common Spica, if turn. 
Bandera GITLERIVSKY Licking
Head of the 2nd Department of the Abwehr, Colonel Erwin Stolz: "...In October 1939, I was attracted Lahuzenom Bandera work directly in the Abwehr. By its nature, Bandera was an energetic agent and at the same time a great demagogue, careerist, a fanatic and a gangster who neglects all principles of human morality to achieve their goal has always been willing to commit any crime .... " (Nuremberg. Book. Moscow, 1952, Vol 2, p. 643-644).
I hate communists for the famine of 1932-1933, Millions of people perished in Stalin beznevinno lagyaryah. Hitler created the Nazi Germany on the model of the Soviet Union. There was also a cult of the leader, the Gestapo (in the USSR, the NKVD), concentration camps Zaksenhaus, Osventsum (in the USSR - the Gulag), the pioneering organization, etc. Hitler and Stalin both dictators and one other stand. 
Yes scary Ukrainians and Belarusians polyakovkak hated.This genocide is tried by ordinary Ukrainians without any ukazaniyTo same can now be done with the Russian chocks
stalіn, our hero, samy humane and kind
, Kievan Rus stay in Ukraine 
I decided to rewrite a bit, so removed. And then realize Ukrainians or not. I do not mean it. I'm talking about slogans "Ukraine for Ukrainians" and the like. I know that in the south (eg, in the Odessa region. Living much more than other nations (Jews, Moldavian, Bulgarian, Russian, and in the south of Romania) and such joy they clearly does not.Esle Kiev closer to Lviv on ideology (and just do most of central Ukraine), it does not mean that the eastern and southern part of privedstvuyut like.
Famine - is a myth to cover up explicit crime. In these years, the entire Union lived hand to mouth, all the supplies were looted. And besides being a part of Ukraine USSR had always been better than the other republics, including Russia. But the alliance fell apart, Lafayette was over and now we have to feed ourselves))) and now not prikroesh outright crime (theft of gas) with good intentions))).
VIdeo May 10hv. 54sek. (Zabuv skazati)
Yes, it's a real hero, still tearing ass pidorashkam the British flag
YOUR ensign Ganebny I. ZMOCHENY in POLSKІY NEVINNІY KROVІ. SHELTER ZHІNOK, DІTEY NEMOVLYAT.VI NOT SHANUЄTE GEROЇV Til'ky VOЄNNIH ZLOCHINTSІV.Pid COURT BANDITІV W UPA. Got KOZHEN RIGHT VIZNANNYA SVOЄЇ RELІGІЇ, KULTIVUVANNYA SVOЄЇ TRADITSІЇ ALE Mauger NOT TO LEAD TO VIKONANNYA ETNІCHNIH shelled SO THAT YAK ON Bulo WOLYNIU ² in Lviv. Shame BANDYTOM W UPA!!
Uynya ... and not a movie, and author - ... UCA sale
No. I did not vote for him.
Ha ... but the Ukrainian nation! much ashamed that I live with them in one country. Shame! 
I do not know what you saw, and I saw the infamous story of your alleged "state" full of distortions, dishonesty and betrayal.When such is how you dreaming about the power that lay under the Turks then substituted their asses Poles, then please come to Russia for protection.How then deign to treat you, "Gentlemen slave" or the like.
I know where you are, so I do not have to look for you. I'm with you Patsyuk
You make sure that what I write? Read though? 
Glory to Ukraine! Russian must learn!!
poor fanatic, so always sacrifice in the first place, and he, poor fellow, however, thinks that he can change things
Ukraїnі glory!  Glory to the heroes!
Sheep do not know, but at least our parliamentary parties not included in the list of those expectations, questions about the return of the former Soviet republics of Russia in general, and the gift of the RSFSR USSR New Russia and the Crimea. in particular, and our people did not vote for such parties. unlike Romania and Hungary. which, if it goes on and chop of Bessarabia to the capital of Ukraine in Odessa. and zakorpate, and before you know Poles and the Turks then trying to remember. Once your fuhrers it to focus not see
Well koneeeeechno .. all who speak impartially, for people like you vysery Jews! 
Are you serious? Ever been in Ukraine? I've Belarusian, Lviv was two years ago - extremely beautiful city, friendly people. Walked a lot, saw a handful of Poles who go to churches, from Russia, too many people who spoke Russian-style - all just a positive attitude. What concentration camp? 
even goats street in Lviv-ssnahtigal-better to Hitler or Gimlerom called b-sho you povyzdyhali
But who are you zdavsya, dwellers on you have diarrhea. Proyshli Rocky and Ukraina bidna, okrim stolitsi. 
This will accelerate the collapse of Ukraine.
Shit nіkoli not vіr Moskal
amuse even Russian Empire one of the countries which has not only rocked the resources of the colonies, and to invest in it. Religion is the church and not the Emperor. What is the impact of Russia? you say probably mean the period from 14 to 91 a year? as Lenin, Stalin, Nikita, Lenka .... they just apparently accidentally knocked the door in the Kremlin and all as on selection of Slavic appearance especially nosasty Stalin. Even I do not like the USSR INEC could fight with the enemy is? Finns or Germans? pact of the attack is not the union?
Bandera ---- traitor to his people and the murderer.
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(4*60+07);return false;'> 4:07 </ a>-SON DECIDED Bandera glows
yes Caucasians not you, they are due to booze and obortov 7 million people 13.5% of the population can not squander. but even if the Ukrainians lived in Chechnya is a loss of 13.5% of the population was 300 000 260 000 as well stay. and then there were about 30 thousand. ie decline in the number of Russian population in Chechnya, more than 10 times. at a total loss RUSSIAN population in Russia in general is 6.7%
Bandera fanatics during the Second World War and after it brutally killed about two hundred thousand Polish children, women and the elderly, as well as about three million citizens of other nationalities ...
yes the video you will not know the Truth, Learn the history 2 eshniki!
And your Sralin dead in her room and fucked up, the room zasrat bastard, you know. 
Correct: Faecal procession
I do not eat bacon, pork in particular is due to an allergy to the product. U.S. Honor device and device RF. USSR at the beginning of its existence, had funds received by farmers and nationalization. Soviet Union came to an industrial, and commercial state, due to what? funds were poluchiny from? Russia can not support themselves fully with the / s products, the market has lost fur ... the use of European technology, sample snow removal ...
It has long been shared! Don't worry."
I really love that, by the light of his Zema sent!As the saying goes, two crest-one of them was a traitor.
but that got supposedly peaceful Jews and Russians from Bandera after opening prison Lonskaya - that this power kommunyatskaya to blame! Why NKVDshniki hurried away, shooting prisoners, and their own, which in two years poprivozili massively abandoned? though it always was - the power, and the NKVD parteytsy - first fled, leaving his own people to their fate. That paid for their deeds, those who support them. From the point of view istricheskoy all right!
Ukrainians (Rusichi) - the oldest nation on earth. And do not you stupid Finno-Finns, give "advice" to his grandparents ... Eggs - Chickens do not learn! Ask better in their intelligentsia, such as Valerie Novodvorskaya, what she thinks of the main ideologists ukrainsokoy statehood, Stepan Bandera and what diabolical propaganda of an evil empire, poured on him at the time, megetonny defamation, dirt and misinformation? .. (And pours up to now) 
You just hate Banderudavay I'll give you my skype - I can tell a lot of interesting things =)
Yes, that's for sure, it was the American author of the book is objective and does "not uperedzhenі", well, just completely neutral .. Jokes you like?
Mlechin schmuck, I will not even look ...
Yes, Stalin hated by all the rulers of Europe and America, because he is the only sent them all .. x and built an independent policy. Therefore, they lure first Hitler and then the Bandera so they shattered the Soviet regime. Only your slogan, you are not with us are against us - it is a fascist slogan. I love Ukraine. This is our common homeland. For me, Russian, Ukrainians, Belarusians have always been, is and will be one people. 
All to you, fagot that glorify Bandera, but at a time when he heroics. Crap like. He is a bandit, the executioner and no more.
Information war against Russian imperialism occupied peoples, ten dollars spent on weapons are less effective than a dollar spent on propaganda.
Immediately obvious "cunningly-vyebany" Ottoman mind. No do not you tell me brother. 
... You understand what you write? Gostintsev send, and then watch you getting worse ... (
and how did this fag was alive then?especially in kontslagere.komentarii izlishni.prosto Ukraine has long changed vitally tsennosti.ne all decent people konechno.est 
you captured soviet propagandy.vse was not tak.eto popular guerrilla movement against the occupiers degeneratov.potomu and survived Stalin a murderer, that was truly national.
He speaks about UKRAINIAN STATE Recovery images, as if it was his personal tragedy. And in this time frame, as the fascists defying WINDOWS. Was he so greedy? I am a historian he was considered decency
However mnee, your rasprekrasnym "Freedom", the slogan "a bright future" Let the winds to discredit Russia. For Depardieu you are ready to declare persona non grata because he, you know, he said that he likes Russian culture.
Glory to the heroes!
SS is not a derSS, which means the service SS.v anyway famous "victory" against the civilian population, and is also famous for the fact that the Red Army had not won a single battle
I agree that in France, one French. Well, then we have a single. He taught the new generation? Yes. On it are the official documents? Yes. It is spoken by those who are used and to whom it is more convenient. And the law, about which I wrote less directly infringes on the rights. Why should I polzyvatsya not the language which I prefer, but the one that I make. Is that correct? This is the same now in Lviv Belarusan impose, for example, I should have seen the reaction of theirs then ...
not dumped it in Russian! to blame the Soviet Union and not the Russian people! among other matters under the Soviet Union of the Russian suffered much more than the Ukrainians
and delirium Khokhlovskiy better
And yet our security officers have won!! Glory to the heroes of security! Dali prosratsya fascist lackeys!! 
Benderovtsy many Jews were killed.Flag of Israel on the avatar, it's such stebnad their death?
Who are you to judge shtob? , Heroes Drugova States svaih problems is not enough? . Svaih problems is not enough? Svaih heroes know?.
Aspiring salozhory-fucking fascists.
you - a little-Ross (read degradant), and I - Ukrainian. The conclusion is not for you to determine who will be the heroes of Ukraine, and to whom - the heroes of your favorite stinky Stalinist sovka.slava Ukraine.
This story backward DYBYLAM U.S. historian tells laugh-map))))
Glory to the heroes fuck! What female heroes fascists galleries? I myself a Ukrainian, but will not tolerate this fascist garbage at home! Go fuck with his fascist propaganda and its utopian idea of ​​joining in EvZhOPE. Any sane Ukrainians see their future in a customs union with the brotherly Russia! Who would not agree to bring down his homeland in EvZhOPU where you all come (Poles, Romanians and other mobile)!
Eka zoofilka even your mother had finished.Fuuuuuu infamy what.
where all the Troll who appeared to give, that escaped from school, and resumed themselves свидетелямигеройскихпоступков syndrome "napaleona."
Russian always helped and flogged ass for everyone, but subsequently remained in the cold. A Ukrainian nation, there is no, there is only malorosy and velikorosy. So baby do not hurt the great Russian people. If that appeals, Uncle will help.
you scum and your bender is a fascist and Nazi cocksucker fag litter festering and soldiers Dupa also suck dick and not crazy mrazota
Sacred duty of every Orthodox Ukrainians - Slav choke, cut, tear apart, watering, gut our worst enemies - not quite dead proklyatuschih banderFAShISTskih creatures praising Austrians fascists Hauptmann SS shlyushkevicha benderku and in our holy land!
nestsy .. Maskall tricky for you too spend time .. so that already come on and about pussy:-D
Well, granted, so betrayed! Straight to the point: "... i nіyaky Brood yomu not scared." When this pig Brood afraid? "I. We pratsі zalishiv dovolі! " that is to say further, "Ukrainise" and not wanting to Stavan "svіdomimi," of course, "... for stvorennya vіlnoї power ..." is not a good idea to exterminate naturally as "moskaliv", how did your idol, well, he , who is not afraid of Brood, in his time with Rusin Galicia.Well you just a fount of quotes.
The Nazis were a thousand times worse! A Bandera just scum. Simply can not kill innocent people on th accessories .... Old men, women and children! You will find yourself there on June 30, you would have the Ukrainians shot ..
See ETU scum live a muzzle nabyu. in my city until 1995, remained buried lie, do not know that Bandera decreed that no member of OUN pripustimosti participate to join the police.And they ispolzuyuyut footage and dokomenty natsystkoy Propaganda for Ukraine.
you tuft too all despise.
You ... in which it's all nonsense you write? What a Jewish state? ))) I to benderastii your cares at all ....) Although the spirit of Taras Bulba, call ...)))) But assholes trampling others refuse to understand the grave moral and ethical reasons ... (
torchlight procession, hmm. just like the Germans at the time, and the crystal night will be?
you can not read or think, at the time of Kievan Rus was Ukraine, during the founding of Kievan Rus' was not on our zamlyah Christianity. Want to understand more deeply moving Ukraine see existing mythologies. You have to see who creates and uses them, and be sure, they do it not for your benefit and in which their own purposes. 
Are you that brain scratched, I am at your word I will not ask, schmuck katsapskoe (and do not try to write here on Ukrainian, tv se is not the same language osvoish) ... sha slut katsapskie Odessa is))))
Enough with all its akkov all doebyvatsya! You're from the city of schizophrenic Swept away from the Tartar physiognomy and Armenian nose. From you all YouTube moaning habalki neebannaya.
Did you see them in Lviv and else where, on buses inscription "We have a saying ukrainskoyu movoyu" - is somehow undemocratic.
Actually, you are the only ones for whom we are the lowest prices for gas.
Muscovites death
The simple answer is they do not drink and all 
This is a typical animal imbitsil miserable.Syavka Bolshevism.SS-Galicia is against these buggers here and fought.
You are very limited man.
Authors, you crazy! Remove the better story of Lenin, Stalin, Sverdlov, etc. about their "heroes".
Look saliva Claudia not to splash. cattle 
...Lviv dregs "- look with that name, and you all will be clear ......" said Russian-style "- you're all clear ...)
And all Galicians so moronic or just you?
And remember the story of how the Bolsheviks came to power through a coup in October 1917. And then shot the king and his family. They are not criminals?
You're not Ukrainian!So that you are a guest!!You go to the Crimea and tell there kid they visit ..........
Baltic Russia does not need.What there is, Amber?It is considered only in terms of geopolitics and Russian-speaking population.Baits squeal of independence and occupation come to power have not been able to make such extraordinary to be able to tell us, they say, see how we can, as you have for so many years nepoluchilos :)
well that is not a lot of these stupid ass
Now guys are calling Vitalik washed :)))))
Ukrainians freaks and aspiring fascists. Ucronia shot on the spot.
Look, guys, what tupeyshy copy - UKR-ordinary - underdeveloped and narrow-minded. There are now also podmahivaet evrolitsym, America and fag israeltyanam - Heavy HIS DESTINY
Do you even aware that your Bandera Hitler was a whore, and Hitler wanted to destroy all the Slavs.Sit here and think you propagandiruesh Nahuas who wanted to destroy the Ukrainians.
Hurrah scattering SUCKS! RUSSIAN BROTHER fag suck HOW DO AS MY RUSSIA AS WE suck suck all the century, and how SOSEM.SOSITE since you suck Batu and Kadirova NOW BOTH suck! RUSSIAN GLORY PIDERASTAM,,
The Soviet Union was a powerful state and what's it and the current Russia.And why do you think that the U.S. can not be such pritsendentaTy contradicts himself. If Russia wants to finally his death, he will do what you say. And you hear that the peasants of the USSR state of delirium. It was the biggest industrial and commercial state of.
Why is forgotten that the crimes of fascism is no statute of limitations. All nationalist rabble to account!
Watch the movie - Ukrainian nationalism. Unlearned lessons. 
ha ha ha .. oh, dumb animal, well, you're on the dick pussy not zhidomul? ha ha ha .. yes, da.zhelayu so you become as good as Caucasians ha ha ha .. pizdets.tupaya creature .. 
Roma, which means sechovyh Sagittarians ----- slaughter by Ukrainian urine.
Famine - it was a genocide against the Ukrainian nation. Thus the Jews who came to valsti in 1917 destroyed the titular nation of Russia - Ukrainians, who had 80 million people, and Russian was, by the way 40 million less
Baits course build their own country, but a simple economic indicator as subsidy, and they're not present nor the Baltic states, neither Russian nor Ukrainian. Fin for empty fields compensated. How many remember in Ukraine lot of natural resources, and it just is not dependent on any other country, although Japan is not much richer in natural resources, and live in better times Most of the world.
you're better than them? :)) In Russia, even worse mess everywhere Nazis, fascists, communists, terrorists, FSB ....
Okay, do not say that I'll oskarblyal. I would like to look like you, you come to us and tell about their fucking ambition and about the Russian role in the history of the city. You better this nonsense shavat Himself. But you, certainly, the same sykun therefore hardly pleases show here its Russian Face.
Everyone who knows the history of Western Ukraine consider Bandera a hero. Bandera museum is also in London, and there annually visited by hundreds of tourists.
A minute cinder blocks, shell-shocked!
"German leaflet against the OUN and nationalist guerrillas in June 1943. Ukrainian people! Would that you have ruined these Bolsheviks and national masked conspirators? Would that your women, children, young and old Your victim brutes? Remember the destroyed church estates and cultural values, renounce their enemies SWNTs can never protect the national interests of the Ukrainian people. OUN and Bolshevism is one thing, so they must be destroyed!
It is a pity that Ukraine has no such colonies because gas and stole.
Japan and China need to drop a few bombs on Katsap and then ohueli cattle, nazhrutsya Braga and the balalaika buzzing all night.
and, most carbon monoxide - is to see how they match yes-)))
shame of Russia in your country vide.zapoganili sorts PUTIN
You dolbaeb, UNR just founded in 1918. And if you have not noticed, but the name of the country the Ukrainian People's Republic. Folk words in the title symbolizes the power of the Communist / <wbr>-Kuyu of socialist orientation of the country. You idiot piece. 
Da.da .. That this whole joke - we do know the outcome. I was even too lazy to talk to them ..
A minute and earned his poor dumb country under the leadership of a thief and a bandit. 
You have to put out the creature in the animals with the Nazis ...
Who's who and Stalin and the Bolsheviks were kissing and helped Hitler to 41 years. And then yapping about cooperation benderovtsy the same fascists ridiculous. Bender for me a hero and a hero with a capital letter.
And whom he betrayed? Stalin and kommunyatskuyu shoblu?Shame Stalin-kommunyatskim lackeys and their followers.
Bandera did not hang and shoot all the time he spent in prison.He was leberalom.And nnikogda UPA was oektom rasmotreniya on Nyurenberskom Tribunal And on oborod as a national liberation movement. And only 60 years of special service NKVD engaged denigration Ukrainian fighters.
profane nonsense. For dropouts
I like that I just watched a program about Lenin, and there he was in the end of life bitterly regretted that the road turned out not quite the one on which he relied, and he basically created a system that crushes everything and everyone. Must of course give credit to owls. power. Gave free education, have been at least some social guarantees, after graduation she was able to easily get a job. But the beginning of the march was very bloody. As one German soldier, "Sov. Soldiers not afraid of death and afraid of the authorities'
Moloch you going to pray, zhidenok?
do not fuck my brains))) for all foreigners, we are Russian, as if you did not like it! if you only cowards yellow-blakitnye pulled, and may then wonder whether you're Russian))) For Bandera, he was never a citizen of Ukraine)) is also an agent of the Abwehr, the people for him was a means, not an end and he died as a rat poison! )) How many indigenous people have cut Bandera? what Natsik hohlyatskie did in Belarus, were fighting for independence with the Belarusian peasants?
and INTO he did to the Ukraine, he even killed Ukrainians who did not share his views. He even had the nationality of the Austro-Hungarian. it is not a Ukrainian and a traitor
You moron frostbitten! Where does Ukraine's independence? Bandera killer of civilians, women and children! 
Six katsapskaya, you do come from? You own Kholuy Watch your language for the people of Ukraine to sign. I - a radical from Kiev and Lvov brothers for me and part of my people, but srusskaya lapotnaya Chukhnov to Kiev just pitiful descendants lapotnogo cattle, which pays tribute to the Princes of Kiev.All the recent elections in Kiev is quite clearly show, for whom voting citizens. At this point you can put. Like you katsapskih toadies We drowned in the river, if'll continue to blather.
Galicia and Ukraine are very different things, the last stronghold of the passive Galicia gomogeev
By the way about Feldbach. They hold it right up to the end of the war. Moron.
Bulls have gored with freedom, what they have in Ukraine is still barking.They forgot that they were not even Ukrainians.Lions when he became the Ukrainian city?Poles live there, Czechs, Germans, Romanians, and they cry because they were Ukrainian.They say that Russian is the enemy, brothers and Poles, then if that does not like, even if separated and knocked with her bare ass in Poland amerikosy ass licking!
In 1943, 1944. according to various sources, Bandera were massacred between 200 and 500 thousand Poles.
I told you, imbecile.I already live in Moscow. :-))) And you ended up in Lemberg, you're out of Belarus.Mudilo, who you to archive, then allow the SBU, an imbecile with three classes of secondary school?. :-))) You have been weighed, measured and declared unfit?Pider shameful. :-))) You're an asshole, you have a negative IQ, this is for you to any primate far as the sky.Your place among the offended, ragged creature.
Lad rights. True historians agree that S.Bandera was an extremist and terrorist. Modern fans' great providnika "attempt to retouch his image under the canons of modern values, but that's ... infant expressed truth. And it seems Libich companions, ready to act. The brakes to their need.
But the description of a certain Charles Portaka when German troops marched to the city ... "In the farm yard stood a cart, to which, in the pose of the crucified were nailed hands several naked women. Near the inn is a barn, to each of its two doors was in the position nailed crucified naked woman. The houses found 72 women and girls, and a man 74 years old - they were brutally murdered, a few were found in the head of the bullet holes. Babies smashed the head. "
Rusyns from the word Rus! The Russian language more obschevo with Polish than Ukrainian. Ukraine first name came at a time when bears roamed around Moscow. More see their TV, they soon will be talking to the white is black, in the literal sense. When you watch Russian channels, it seems that this is some bad joke, but people believe is ...: (
Shukhevych, associate Bandera Germans served in the battalion, "Nachtigall" and was one of the commanders of the punitive SS battalion. Until December 1942, he earned two crosses and a captain SS for successful suppression of the partisan movement in Belarus. (Why he was fighting for the independence of Ukraine in Belarus?)
During the second world was osvobitelnaya Russian army led by General Vlasov. This army fought alongside the Nazis. Its composition was hundreds of thousands of Russian and some say even Millions numbers. On the territory of Rosii created several SS SS legions "Varyag", the 15th SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, 29th Grenadier Division of the SS Division "Russland" and so on. Did you ever make a movie about that what Ukrainians and nonhumans predaateli. Among the Russian was no less of those who fought for Hitler.
haha who would say soon in Ukraine hohlyatskoy speech just do not be a Russian, Caucasian and so on, so as not-who will bear Ukrainians, because Ukrainian whore massively go to Russia by a pussy to trade 
This is your sick imagination, but you "wit-taught" with fecal fantasies.
Bandera schizo ...IT niodnoy normal person does not have to ... Gamna-Bender not only did not was a Ukrainian (Polish zhidyara), so anything useful for Ukraine did not, only cooperate with the occupiers are the days described in his book Viktor Polishchuk, who lived in Galicia the time and described the crimes shit-benderovtsev .... even Natsik Bulba Borovets called Bender executioner worse komunyakami and fascists ..Just e "type lboeby you rush him, but we do not care for you, you Gamna podzabornaya
Stefan Bandera ethnic Poles, they even have their heroes do not.
Do you know who so-and-Edgar Cayce, so that's up to 2025-year vossoedenyatsya Slavs, according to him, this was a man who explicitly said so on the date named., Not that that misunderstanding "prophets" quatrains are interpreted by all and sundry) ))
Bender HERO
hahaahah zatupische pindosovskoe))))))))
roundnose Maskaev!!
Auntie, do not make me laugh! literacy a lesson for yourself if you are not familiar with netiquette, it's not a reason lighten up. first you latched on to Nick, now you want me to include Kapslok. what remains when there is nothing to say on the merits. My conclusions are based only on what you say. if you like the Ukrainian language, write on it, and do not mix Russian and Ukrainian words. join discussions on not interested. You can take the girl out of the village, but the village of girls can not take away.
National composition of the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1989 Chechens 734.5 (57.8%) Russian 293.8 (23.1%), Ingush 163.8 (12.9%), Armenians 14.8 (1.2%) The national structure Chechnya, Ingushetia 2010 + Total / / / Chechens 1,225,316 73.3% 27,597 1.6% Russian Ingush 387,003 23.1% Other 30,115 1.8% So much for the numbers of which you forgot. what happened to the 300,000 Russian. and how the Chechens have multiplied from 700 thousand to 1.2 million by eating Russian Chechen babies?
But with what the fuck? Not liking it does not mean shit to hate him, too much honor!
Come to Volyn - Volyn massacre was committed obychneyshemi Ukrainians. Bandera did not have to do with it
In April 2012 the lower house of the Parliament of Canada unanimously recognized example of "loyalty to fundamental human rights" activities of Metropolitan Andrey Sheptytsky during World War II. Canadian MPs noted that the efforts of Metropolitan rescued over 160 Jews, one of whom attended a meeting of the Canadian Parliament in the decision.
Kievan Rus' has existed since the 11th century and had already begun to develop the Ukrainian language, but you wrote that it is made in Canada by replacing Russian words in Polish.The fact that the Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian and Polish languages ​​have much in common, so it is one grupa Eastern Slavic languages ​​this is not surprising. It as well as English and German belong to the same Indo-European family of languages. But the main role in the formation of the Ukrainian language played Belarusian and Polish, not Russian.
Stalin killed more people than Bandera. Remember the 1937 purge of thousands, millions of people by security officers beznevinno firing squad "enemies." Then solemnly posthumously rehabilitated by Khrushchev. A artificially created famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 when the villages, the troops went prodrazvertki taking the last grain from farmers every penny. Stalin, Khrushchev reported cases of cannibalism, the 1932-1933 in Ukraine. And Stalin denounced his nationalist reproached izlichnoy flabbiness.
boy your whole National Guard of Ukraine was created on the basis of my))) 48th Red Banner Order of the October Revolution, they Ropshchinskaya Infantry Division. Kalinin was you, I may be still learning that we'll want it and will do so until we hear senior live and learn)))) 
Russian is govnopomes Hacha and dogs. Suck, suck, suck, and will ... opuschentsy.
not bothered to complain maskalskuyu garbage? people go to NATO because they are afraid stupid Russia. moronic country madhouse. dick, and that's what you're really - because that's how it est.esli Baltics Russia does not need - at what there dick stuffed so many Maskall? What were they doing? why not learn the local language? in your fucking Rasch live, pussy in Estonian?
1.With a fright we brotherly peoples?Ukrainians with Russian brothers like the Brazilians and the Iraqis.We are completely different ethnic groups genetically (!) and historically, with different cultures, languages, traditions, <wbr>-custom and istoriey.2.Muscovites of all our heroes who fought for the independence and freedom of the Ukrainian people, the state called the henchmen West it.d. fascism, etc., but traitors and betrayers, the Kremlin is six, and that the independence of the culture and do not put in the dick, and just want to give our ...
Well .... yes, recruited, and was caught Stashinsky fare hare ....) And he was originally from Galicia, and without objection the proposal intelligence send to the light of his land ... Who is the next hero, who live Muscovites do not give?
And they themselves nationalists prastitutki, it is for our interesting story for the Germans!
1. Did Farion Tyagnibok and is the native Ukrainian surnames?2. In fact, parents should call their children as they like, and not, as it promotes the ideology of this painted mymra. If they like Mike, not Mikhailik, let freedom shut up. In the Union, which they so Hayat, generally in fashion is not native Russian foreign names. 
He is not angry at them, God rest his soul and eternal memory.You Drunk with its vicious vomiting, amerikosina bilingual.
Uh-oh, I thought I offend. It did not work, because most of the squad was formed from children of immigrants, in their homeland is not living. And my grandfather both fought and ended the war, one in Breslau, the other in Budapest, both sons had died for their country. And your ounovtsy died for British grandmother.And your "Galicia" successfully wreaked reprisals only civilians and was destroyed in the first battle. Well, just the real heroes. 
@ Yuriy RESIN Do you really think that you (not all Ukrainians, and only you - traitors) are waiting in the EU? Your role in the EU - wiping his backside mat at the front door, pushing the Turks.
A great man! Great patriot! Ukrainian real! 
Lvov ghetto was the third largest, after the Warsaw and Lodz getto.8 November 1941 German authorities ordered organize Lvov ghetto. 
How nice ass in Moskalik undercooked. I'm right in delight: D
When judged the Nazis and their collaborators at Nuremberg that the heroes in the face of the UPA did not see from what? This is a first, a second, more Jews have understood the "Old Testament" times that Rusov not win, even with vnidreniem "new covenant", but separate from the moronic Rusov inspire a nation that is determined by the territory, and the territory needed nezalezhnist. .. Too, at one time, it was in France, England, Norway, Germany, Poland, etc. That's when white people will be less than what will?
So you pedlagaesh take someone else's point of view, and foaming at the mouth to prove to everyone what you think is true and what is false to mine also not the best idea.
Stepan Bandera and Yaroslav Stetsko in 1942, announced the creation of an independent Ukrainian state in western Ukraine. Let your money - Bandera karbovanetses. For trying to secede were planted in a Nazi concentration camp Zaksenhaus where he stayed until December 1944.
fufel you speak the language izkoverkanom Austrian general staff ....... how Poles make fun of you but to Catholicism of the cross over the fire sword and rape ..........!! 
Where did 300,000 Russian from Chechnya? for 10 years. and the Chechens were able to multiply from 700 thousand to 1.1 million over the same 10 years in the Russian Chechen eating babies for breakfast, lunch and dinner? you tell me to answer these questions if you do not know the answer then do not fuck my brain.
It is a pity that people do not know when the trash goes, can be pelted with eggs. City RUSSIAN glory where you dirty swine priperlis. From the mountains came down, his hands are not washed with soap and bullish for a pulled
Ilya, and we went to the pioneer camp with torches, but so what? At first, including the brain, and then later write.
"Better be engaged in business" - some reps! This is a conversation that would support it? And why, I wonder, do you think I sit back? By itself, a troll, judge? And to justify the Bandera you have nothing to say!Bandera criminal, torturer and murderer of civilians!
Want to be a patriot of Russia - Ukrainians and leave Bandera in peace.Instead of repeating the Soviet fabrications propogandysozday own company and take jobs to American workers
Friday Donetsk District Administrative Court declared unlawful and irrevocable decree of President Viktor Yushchenko on January 20, 2010 on awarding Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine.
Lies, would be an accomplice of the Nazis - in the camp would not be sitting.
You yourself what kind of education you have in between? I have 10 candidates defended their graduate students, more than 200 articles, 15 books, 6 monographs. You fagot to me as far as the sky. Fuck you fagot waning.
Jewish view on the issue. In the center, as always with them Jewish.
hryapay not you fag huyki vyebany, Russian fag's your calling bitch, Rodel you from Sven, here you are and have, schmuck!
What I Belarusian does not mean I do not love Ukraine. Russian hate everything Ukrainian. In Russian imperial ways, they want to be the main post-Soviet space this created a customs union and try to force him to drive into the Ukraine in exchange for gas. This is an attempt to recreate the Soviet Union or the Russian Empire is doomed to failure. Now Russian rewrite the history of World War II itself solely attributing the victory over Hitler. Although the war against Hitler fought the entire West, Ukraine, Belarus. 
Thanks Armenian radio that Muscovites dipped in shit for the new year :))))))
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(4*60+44);return false;'> 4:44 </ a> if the Kremlin did not invent their own truth was nothing bi "entanglement"
I am Russian, I am for Bandera!Glory to the heroes!
You yourself have a cock in my life creature kike!
Well koneeeeechno .. all who speak impartially, for people like you vysery Jews! 
I've already said goodbye to you, but it will interestno if you bring the facts as are better off in the Baltics, Central Asia and the Caucasus after the Russian as pressed. There pressed ordinary citizens that go there for distribution: doctors, engineers, etc., nothing to be proud. While in Asia special persecution of the Russian was not. Baltics already whining that enslaved the EU. European prices, wages are the same as thinking and kakly that you posypetsya golden rain, just to take in kind and in the EU.
by hahlyatski dick sucked it with hunger fascists to another point in his svinohahlyatskoe fucked and you keep hahlyak dirty dick sucking silence the whole dick hahlyandiya beggar on the road worldwide otsasyvaaet 
I did not ditch for "Freedom".Among Ukrainian political parties, they are the best, yes, but I would vote for them would not.Nevertheless, it is thanks to them in Parliament some order, they do not admit there is no bl @ dstva nor rossfikatsii.About Depardieu I did not even hear because all politperedachi and show already got, but I think this is a response to your chauvinists.In any case, they are promoting Ukrainian Ukraine and do not hesitate to talk about the crimes in Ukraine, Russia.
Glory to the heroes
Well, you have not lived at the time. My grandfather recalled Stalin's time, as the best in life. He was forced to go to Siberia from Kirovohrad, but he said that he was impressed by the construction of the plants, the scale of production, the level of education of the population. State they set up personal. There was a mighty power. 
The Jews were in the Wehrmacht and served in the Wehrmacht - and co? When the Red Army liberated Auschwitz, some of the prisoners there Jews chose to retreat with the Wehrmacht, but did not get to the Communists - and co? The model for the German poster: "The ideal German soldier" was a Jew Goldberg - so Cho? Output logic of that time Jews were in OUN UPA, then Lviv pogrom was not - this is the upper stage of schizophrenia, it is like all about. Hitler's grandfather was Jewish Schicklgruber - well, so what?
Some people need to learn, it is definitely. People learn, learn, and no it does not learn! 
@ YegorYeliseenkoGeroizm him that Popper against the Soviet Union and Germany. And fought to the last. At such a spirit lacking in units. Through such as Ukraine, he is still alive, the Ukrainian language is alive and slowly but surely increasing.Glory to Stepan Bandera - a faithful son of Ukraine!
In Ukraine (as in any other country) there are 3 ways of development: 1.Close to all come off from the world and develop themselves in itself (like in Belarus) .2.European integration.Become a truly European country (and cons are everywhere) .3.Plunge into the customs union, and thus return to the maximum 17-20th century.The choice is clear, right?
put first in our country its power and then croak, fuck - henchmen Zhydivsky .. you and us on the dick on sebalis and talking on the Ukrainian
buffalo for you march not really know, but sporting interest kindled in the country only to deprive the Indians of their economic base and livelihood ... and you're a zombie march that yet .... Confess .. head strongly herachili when inspired: "ALL EVIL FROM RUSSIA, ALL EVIL FROM RUSSIA!"! :) Well just curious. Why do we have to accept some sort of contrived Banderlog garbage!? SchA :) I thought that western Ukrainians eat Jewish babies!Admit it!Face it bitch!Hurley Well you do not recognize?! :)
everything is attached to the Golden Horde, see the fans, well, you do not forget that these mongoloydy you had to 91 years is that there remains a purely steep genes "Ukraine" Ukrainians are Ukrainians ...
Bandera was not a hero, the most natural and terrorist and Nazi psychopath with strong sadistic. But he was a product of his time. If those citizens who say that he is a hero, even a little would be living with his mind, and not blindly believe the propaganda that would have long understood the essence of the issue. After all, that's a matter, if we discard all the snot it turns out well, as stated in modern Ukrainian propaganda, Bandera and others have fought for the independence of Ukraine in which to live Ukrainians.
By your komentam see that you think about estate-cattle, and cattle such as you should be in the bullpen.
Ukraїnі glory! Glory to the heroes!
you burn with a blue flame
Guide to see the movie "Orange Children of the Third Reich" ;) there fairly consistently and in detail about hohlofashistah :)
Yak of earth to wear ...
Each country has a shameful moments, we have it Kadyrov, but it does not cancel your handicap and make Ukraine more real :)
No, he was a Russian, even by name shows that not kakl
TI Alexeeva. Eastern Slavs. Anthropology and ethnic history, Dyachenko VP Antropologіchny warehouse Ukrayinsky people read these books for education
Imbecile, I "Ukrainian" in parenthesis. King was a Ruthenian, as I wrote, but came out of the Ruthenians, Ukrainians. And from whom appeared srusskie? Lapotnogo descendants of cattle, which pay tribute to Kiev princes and which Nestor the Chronicler in the "Tale of Bygone Years" compared with the beasts. Who came up with the Ukrainians? Come on items. Ingots lapotnaya, many nations over time change their names Katsap too, did not immediately become srusskimi, how could you not pyzhilis prove otherwise. 
Took to drink yourself, stupid ass! What's the Communists?
And here rok i rep, and for that, it's spelled Russian alphabet or Ukrainian.
shorter delirium from rasseyskih post sovieticus. surely you did not understand, did not learn the lessons of history, that the Ukrainian spirit of freedom will never die. will continue to ignore this beautiful fact and to put their dirty hands in the history and politics of Ukraine, will always be enemies of the Ukrainian people. none of the neighbors like Russia will not go to Ukraine with his views on history, even those in which the relationship was no less complex. What for? Well, why do you need to UTB? yes you have leave to rest in Bender. Ukrainians themselves sorted out.
mrazota in march 
3.In honor of one of these units is not ustraival.4 parades.A Why are you so quiet that we have Tuyev cloud monuments and streets Bolshevik cates?Lenin, Dzerzhinsky, Cap <wbr> - (even though he was the commander of the guerrilla unit, or rather the connection), Kotovsky, E.Bosh, N <wbr>-Ors, streets Commissars, etc., etc., etc.
We have enough of its territory, we have everything, and you do fuck. Sorry, but that's it :)
Is all Slavs (the peoples of Yugoslavia, Bulgarians, Czechs, Slovaks, Poles and Ukrainians, Belarusians, Russian) united? Prerequisites like that, no! Policies that do not contribute, and the people inert on the issue, on the contrary! All these marches only to the contrary!
Bendery this brotherhood should push bitches like cockroaches. 
extremists? and where we provoke riots conducted terrorist attacks, the method of guerrilla warfare? extremists is your UPA and the like. 
Trogalka has not grown))) Go to school boy))) And not vstryavay an adult uncle says)))
FASCISTS CAN BE A HERO? CERTAINLY CAN-U dumb brutes and Fascists
Shame
Bandera vyperdysh galitsayskoy sluts fucked by the Germans and the war pereebali galitsayskih another bunch of whores, there is so much and to dalbaebov halychyni
banderovsaya riffraff itself izzhevet!
Lyakh frigging
UPA and Germans SHAME
And what have you got an avatar Hebrew text, you are on AT YOUR nationalities at?
and what is worse georgia hohlyandii
And the Poles was revenge, as well as in Germany avenged Soviet soldiers.
what is your "beautiful and intelligent" Kremlin story. feast for the eyes!)))) specially written for the Russian suckers!! proud of the attention to yourself!))))
And exactly what nationality nerd in Siberia must disconnect? Altai Buryats Dolgans Kety (or Yenisei Ostiaks) Komi Muncie (or Vogulichi) Nenets Selkups (or Ostyak-Samoyed) Siberian Tatars of Khakassia Khanty Chukchi Shors Evenki Evens Yukaghir Yuga (the people) (or Sym Ostiaks) Yakuts Teleuts
A Western stooge, dear Russia, Vova was Lenin, overthrew the king on the money and ordered the German secret service.))))))))))))))
Everyone knows the misanthropic works Ehrenburg, who demanded even kill Ukrainian pregnant women and infants. And that's what was told to the Soviet prisoners of war interrogations: "Before he enter on the Ukrainian land officers gave us instructions, according to which the property of the German civilian population can not be respected, and a population can be treated as a game. Women to rape. "So you complain, for that Zhidov-Komunyag herded into concentration camps? 
Th in Ukraine does not have outstanding individuals except Hungary Bandera? lol. It would be better to glorify Taras Bulba.
Female Bandrera - me a strong character that he did kill her then? Such a fagot he killed Vatutina ...But he was a great man of him was largely dependent on the progress of the war!
I do not advocate the more Stalin Beria. Whereby they no one flunked in his time. won the war all the same people thank him for all time
- For this they will need you. for this they zabreyut you and your child to the army prikryvaya this talk about patriotism. begin to do so in all countries with your diapers. And if someone is in the country zanimayaetsya incitement against neighbors this is also done for this purpose.
Yushchenko after prisoeniya Bandera Hero of Ukraine should not throw eggs and bombs
that's great men-Albert Einstein, Charlie Chaplin, Antoine de Saint Exupery, Mikhail Bulgakov, Camus, Zola, and not all. Where is the place to Bandera? These people are his enemies. All. And for me it is my heroes. And for all the people. Therefore choose the wrong targets.
Ukraine ruined everything they have created vklyatie Kommunisti. having fertile lands they have purchased products in Europe. benderovtsi only reached number one in the world in the extinction of the population. Clowns
Glory to Stepan Bandera! Glory to Ukraine! Greetings from-Siberian UKRAINIANS!
Lots of pussy Banderlog UPA with the Germans fought.
UKRANІ GLORY!
So ukroblyad, go teach Russian. Oh ... Wait a minute ... YES ITS SO YOU ALREADY KNOW AHAHAHAHAHAHAH done, prepared to accept Russian pidorsky dick in his ass, fucking ukroblyadina. ahahahah
When on the second day of the guerrillas entered the village, they saw in the homes of villagers piles of mutilated bodies lying in pools of blood. In one of the houses on the table scraps of half-full bottles of vodka and lay dead year-old child, whose naked body was nailed to the wood table with a bayonet. In his mouth stuffed monsters eaten sour cucumber
because such ebashu illiterate Katsap like you!)))) teach English, stupid tatarchenok.
See children as a primate learns to talk.He even tries to blame us, that do not work well ...))Where did it come from? From where it was brought to us?Certainly, the leader of the country, the world of scientific progress and the production of high technology.But enough to listen to him, it is monotonous and dull.Move on to another cell: Natsikus Georgian-Saakashvili. Renowned for being renamed the main street of the capital in the prospect of George W. Bush. 
and coal Dombas!
What do you personally Stepan Bandera did wrong? I just died in sov.kontslageryah my ancestors. This is the Business somehow. Common.
the worst thing that had benderovtsy zhestokimy they plundered raped worse than the Germans killed
GLORY NKVD
Parashnik, go suck a dagov and forget about Ukraine :)
Uebany
Very laugh Mlechin words about "an unbiased analysis." So that's how it is called propaganda odoroblo! Stashinsky they have almost a hero, it's crazy. Bandera his entire life to the struggle for the independence of the Ukrainian state, passed all the tests and was killed. Therefore, he will live forever in our history. A Mlechin only shovels interpreter and no more. He failed to break away from sovdepovskih stamps.
UPA is the Ukrainian executioners freaks! They hate everything that was good for the people, the children, they are against our people have taken away all the people of what was given to the Communists, and most importantly it took away his childhood in children, which we had in the House of Pioneers have taught us, scientists are coming out designers, engineers, and what clubs, radio photo, aviomodelnye, different designers, and DIY shops went and look at first. And those that hate our country saying bad life, bad life just lazy and alkogoloiki ..
I am Russian, I live in Ukraine, I love my country I can not agree with the speakers, but what's the Muscovites? At this historical period Muscovites generally not in the business, and it's time to put things in order than tough .... 
Bandera could not kill ukarintsev because in 1941 he was in the camp nimetskom and Ukraine did not return.
You justify the Nazis? I pity you. Fucking SHAME ....
Yanukovych Bandera
As he worked?This advice in Hitler invaded Poland!Bandera is nothing like it made!He defended his land!
Filmets something єfєsbєshnenky.What is not a word, then lies.Goebbels rests.
Perhaps, the Ukrainians have reason to resent neighboring countries, including Russia. It is not possible, and there is certainly, if you look at the history of Ukraine objectively, impartially. Only the closest Russian Ukrainians by blood and vice versa. 
Ukrainian language has existed since the 11th century. The people that emerged in the lands of South Russia at the end of XII - early XIII century, is Ukrainian, but then he had a different name (the name of the "Ukrainian" appears as the name of a regional Cossack Ukraine at the end of the XVII century., General Ukrainian as it is in the XIX - the first half of the twentieth century). Lexically nearest Belarusian language is Ukrainian (84% of the vocabulary) and then Polish (70%), Slovak (68%) and Russian (62%). 
Nah I am not a Pole.But the Poles, the Slavs.A Russian is Finnish-Finno-tatarva.The entire capital of the Rostov people ...Suzhdal capital Merya people ...Moore Capital Murom people ...Ryazan capital city of the people ... mAAskva Erzya, the capital of the people Moksel ...Where I made a mistake, my dear?Then specify where.
Incidentally freak you some lessons in Russian missed the word "betrayed" soft sign stands, and after the word "empty" the comma, sit down, bitch, two!!
Do I understand that, under the weight of the arguments and facts you agree that Bandera criminal, murderer and executioner?By the way, Bandera (under the strict guidance of Bandera) destroyed Poles (of which you are so distressed) is ten times larger than the entire Red Army voshedsheya in Poland in the 39th.
Remember!Everything-fucking said Vitalka settled, fell to the floor pedal ..UHAHHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAH
Poland must take their historical lands in Ukraine look and Bandera will not and that the Ukrainians have opened their mouths while they themselves live in a foreign land the Polish. 
:) Eggs - Chickens do not learn! 
All right kid kazhe.moskalі high zav'yanut in comments that stick in Yazikov dupi.
Ukrainian language has existed since the 11th century. The people that emerged in the lands of South Russia at the end of XII - early XIII century, is Ukrainian, but then he had a different name (the name of the "Ukrainian" appears as the name of a regional Cossack Ukraine at the end of the XVII century., General Ukrainian as it is in the XIX - the first half of the twentieth century). Lexically nearest Belarusian language is Ukrainian (84% of the vocabulary) and then Polish (70%), Slovak (68%) and Russian (62%). 
ellen294A which cost millions of Ukrainians who were tortured by hunger in Stalin's Ukraine?Ambassador - is not a "harmless people", and political figure.Murder in Lviv in 1941 - a reaction to the hundreds who were tortured NKVDistami. The bodies were mutilated. Of course at that time there was brutality and hysteria, skillfully podogrevayamaya and directed by the Germans.Still, Bandera is one distinct advantage over the Stalinists - they fought for the independence of their homeland.
Tartar Steppe is you mug!Dependent on Russia at all and spit more ...Do not be so scumbag, you know that without Russian podohnite you from the Turks and Poles ...You do it from what the farm?
Your piggy movu not understand, you stupid? No more grunt.
No worse and no better than yours, scallywag. OTTOydi and not get in the way, and better PROSSTO sit down for a history book (preferably a school-based program to 1991 edition) and read it, there's a lot of interesting things.Only then taste it to enter into polemics with other ...
Be weasel reference on dokumentiki give.Though one would prikazik read.Without references on prikaziki, your sayings are not worth groshika copper.And, in general, Bandera fought bravely with all akkupantami and even robbed once canned Fritz, who went to their Galyamov and Oksana until hegrrroi Ukraine sluggish huytsy sucked in caches.
Your hatred to kill you
Love for Bandera kills your soul!
in your cereal in the head. Sheptytsky Catholic. And who cut the Cossacks? Do not remind? The concept of the Ukrainian people to the 20th century were not there. Ukrainian words were not. Bandera for the whole world already knows what he is a fighter. And tell that Talergof and Terezin not have been.
Yes, that's for sure, it was the American author of the book is objective and does "not uperedzhenі", well, just completely neutral .. Jokes you like?
Bandera and Vlasov heroes fag!
The idea of ​​nationalism UPA is the same as the rebels are now in Syria. People who do not know anything about what to do, and actually there is no criteria, as to what is determined by man's belonging to the Ukrainian nation. UPA to me like the Nazis, not because, as some say about collaborating with the Nazis, but because the idea was like Hitler, the theory of the superiority of one race over another as a result of which it is necessary to destroy anyone who is not a Ukrainian, but only within Ukraine.
You moron!
There is liquid, kerosichiku pours! Not only you, in Lviv, pochikali?
Again, this Mlechin nasnimal! I do not like his movies. I do not recommend. Film about Bandera bullshit and lies!
4th Regiment of the SS Division "Galicia" took part in the destruction of the Polish village of Huta Penyatska, where 172 houses were burned down and was brutally killed more than 500 people of the Polish population, including women and children. In March of the same unit, with the assistance of the UPA, the Dominican Convent Pidkamin village was destroyed more than 250 Poles.
Ie In your opinion, if the addict, then only the East? Its own, so to speak, "homegrown" there can not be any way .. Here is what you alienate another part of Ukraine, eastern. How will I relate to you (in the sense of the western part of the country), if there I almost poked in the face, "cattle", "daunetskie."And I have two degrees (and I'm not the only such in the East). I'm not angry at life, I have a wonderful family. You, too, come and see: there are not animals live, and the people
You mean Medvedev that? )) Well I was an actor, comic genre, who played the role of president)))
If it were not Russia ... Ukrainians as a nation do not become even during the "Rzeczpospolita"
"Aggressive nationalism."-This was not.It is time.Second slavnoizvestnaya "trehlineyka" designed so that it could Handbook on Non even the latest imbecile, because the lion's share of the Red Army were just "village boys, uneducated, not videvshienichego except my village."Hence the simplicity and reliability of Russian arms and technology.And the third.Immeasurably superior to what standards?At that time, too, a good part of the population sign it "X". + Schools, kindergartens, vocational schools were NOT UKRAINIAN.
Go substitution vuyko. Live as such zaprodantsy in our land!  My ass and pussy to Hutsuls. Judas.
but suck hutsuly firmly still his mustache flowing
Dick on your ass good-striped rat.That's what I'm saying.Because of these flawed Muscovites, as you always will be Russia barbaric Asian country, which guzzle vodka and gas snack (I am not talking about all the Russians, but only on such katsapchikah who have PMS).Fortunately, that did not forget to sign up at least))) Go suck a Cheburashka)))
I was under it, and you suck at all, and his whole rotten life will suck fag Pseudomonas
zasohni cache and taken in cattle Bandera ...
what kind of a bad example ..Who had such measurements in 1100. And what is corruption in 1100? seen bad ideoloogicheskuyu training your boїvtsі))) But. Seriously - that in 1100, only Jews were engaged in finance, so the so-called. corruption etc. b. disappear .. for lack of finance)))
Well maybe he would head for Ukraine prodaleto and makes him a hero of Ukraine
And here Teliga? It is under psevdonomom in Munich not hidden, unlike Bandera. And 621 members of the OUN in lihnenshteyne not hiding in the mountains, in contrast to the miller. In general, all as always and at all - selnepodobnye leaders - generals and gray skotinka series. One monuments and other common Spica, if turn. 
Oh Lord...Kadyrov himself does not know how to pay off, if only to keep him in power.Of all people, but he's no fool, in contrast to Ukrainians, and realizes that if the barking would get Mother Russia, it would not be good.But the stupid Ukrainians even before dopedrit can not.I would neighing over reaction Ukrainians, had suddenly declared war on Russia Ukraine.Would be immediately to the "good Uncle Sam" and already running away from there yapping and crying over soimi "donated" Russian land!
Gandba
Quite right, I'm not Russian. I am a Ukrainian with Russian roots, but it's not the same thing.
Pig movu not understand. Or in English or in Russian write.
How sovetskih poletsaev raised the innocent and who is a pro in Russia once removed? Only know how crap story and potdelat under. 
Agree, is much worse when the "quiet" as you have in the Duma, where the bourgeoisie and capitalists quiet peaceful UNANIMOUSLY sawing country. It is much better when there is a conflict, it means all is not lost ... First Liberty nobody pulls "Geyropu" as you said, they are aware of what she herself is schyas. Recently one of the deputies of the European Parliament called Liberty "political collective farm." 
Glory Ukraїnі-Heroes fame) Banner Hero)
, Kievan Rus stay in Ukraine
that shoti
Himself ... his luggage flowers maniacs ... In Russia we put flowers on the grave of heroes, well taken ...
Glory Ukraїnі - Heroes of Glory
you fat podtErlas, beckoning?
@ BanderanWo311, that backwardness, 140mln in Russia, in Moscow, only 8-9. And you call all the Muscovites. You all Ukrainians kivlyanami klichesh too?
Is Jew Mlechin can remove an objective film about the Patriots. Jews promote their interests, then, they are racists.
Vas, you learned all did, or did not ask for the holidays? would you go, mom will rugatsya, you need it?
And last - a campaign for some reason, many people do not understand or do not want ponimat.italiya also was on Hitler's side - but the military did not schitayutsya prestupnikami1!as Romania and yaponiya.ya this is what it says - not the Nazis were tried for war! Nazis were tried for the idea of ​​the lower races, and especially for the physical destruction of the latter.Those German generals who were not in the actions of extermination is mixed (not punitive schitayutsya) - those nyurbergsky Tribunal did not judge
along Bandera - another political prostitute, licking those who gave him the opportunity to feel the power. And present ...Gay hohlbanderovtsi, good bazaar, sharpen knives and go - cut klyatyh Muscovites!))) Now rejoice in your western masters))) but do not forget they are more likely to lick, as did your "hero" Stepanushko)))
you away from the topic of dialogue I wrote you how to calculate the difference in the number of SWNTs WHY YOU WROTE WAS IN SO LITTLE SOLDIER OUN on your post, I clearly said 
You're going to go and look
Bugagashenka .. this is where the mother of Russian democracy driven? Really from doma2 kicked!?In general, of course flattered that Ukraine as a Ksenatolnu experience:-Dpryam a pleasure dear :) And I watch the news, read the tape regularly, of course, and could miss, but something tells me that in Russia of infringement Sobchak few in the course ( it is possible that she herself).However, in a free and democratic Ukraine, as I can see, everyone knows what's what:-D please link back at least to the Ukrainian media)
To clarify morons, Pitman translated to English - Shakhtar
Bandera fanatics during the Second World War and after it brutally killed about two hundred thousand Polish children, women and the elderly, as well as about three million citizens of other nationalities. Bandera were faithful companions, associates, sister and ally of Nazi fascists in the merciless plunder, enslavement, torture and brutal destruction of millions of Ukrainians, Jews, Russian, Polish and other citizens!
And stop insulting people.You're a white man with colored eyes, white skin.Do not lower your level of the white man.Vaughn, Central Asia became independent, and there only Kazakhstan is less thriving.And the rest of us to sweep the yard, but in the construction work.And although the vypendrivolis that want independence.And your Yuschenko a famine came up with.No, he was, but he was all over the Union.
as mskali trying oprovdat their action, and twist the story, Bandera HERO
... Judging by what they were doing and benderasty Shlyuhevich with Jews, you as their pochetatili logically do the same?
Well then do not be su-25 with guided missiles, like the situation with Dudayev, make do with what was
These pigs have died of the prick all, learn from others' examples, Bandera bolie killed and about 200 thousand Polish 150tys nevchem innocent Belarusians and Bandera leaky, fascist grandmother distributed in his bunker, schmuck dwarf.
Well what can I say. You suck and you will suck on.
What is a hero? this bastard Ukrainians killed whole families and children killed
Rams
,)))) Farms - it katsapstane))) Tatars, Tatars ... it is not in Kazan it? No, Kazan did not take. This is also the Golden Horde, katsapsky ancestor. 
I am a German, and you Schwein, will soon go on a breaker.
a civil war .... Women crucified on the doors of sheds and carts overturned, or raped, crushed tank treads. Their children are also brutally murdered. Forty French prisoners of war who worked on nearby farms, "liberators" were shot. The same fate befell the recognized German Communists. The actions of the Red Army was not a manifestation of the senseless brutality - it was a methodical sadism, had unparalleled.It is so liberating Ukraine from Red Ukrainians ....
June 30, 1941 Burst into the dawn with the German advance units in Lions Battalion "Nachtigall", commanded by R. Shukhevych in the early days has destroyed more than three thousand of Polish Lviv, including 70 scientists from around the world. It's probably too dressed-Schnick NKVD did in the period 1941-1944.?
Russian for the UPA! Freedom for the People!
Most interesting is that when they show footage allegedly victims of Ukrainian Nationalists, in fact it is the removal of the corpses of prisoners Soviets Lvov prison in June 1941. This was not the limit a single case. And what are we going to love the Soviets and Russia?
...This statement also rewrite, and sit down - again two ... (... you dropped once picked benderastiyu ...Still hoping to wait raskazov, fairy tales, tall tales about the adventures shlyuhevicha and his gang of his descendants so piss, or just talented Nazis ...Their version send you straight here, the most fun will be filmed documentary historical cartoon ...)
Mr. Plant (good nick - tops, as they say, in Africa tops), I do not think it necessary, in principle, to communicate on your level, but all the same answer, that there was no doubt in Lviv, I was just "in transit", we arrived by train early in the morning, and after 40 minutes went by bus to Zakopane, check hotels for the winter season. Obmal hour, they say. A Shushary call your mother or wife, if you allow it. And your level of me clearly: "rastopyrki" in-HETE. 
Shame on the traitors, Bandera was, is and will remain a traitor
Misha, you finished school for the mentally disabled?Hnyu this, which does not open you name a reference to the documents? You imbecile, Mike :-) There can be no such documents.
Tambov wolf is your comrade) So fuck you)
July 11, 1943 Biškupić village, commune Mikulichi, county Vladimir-Volyn. Ukrainian nationalists committed mass murder, people were herded into the school building. Then the family was brutally murdered by Vladislav Yaskuly. Executioners broke into the house, when everyone was asleep. Ax and killed the parents of five children, all put together, surrounded with straw mattresses and podozhgli.11 of July Kalusove the massacre upovtsy zamordovali their two Joseph Feeley, broke his leg, and part of the calf laid on the table. 
how I live, and I have heard it so much that Europe is bent, and Russia blooms riotous color. Only here in Russia, people live worse than animals, as bonded slaves in his empire Russian concentration camp, separated from all tsivilizovanngo community like lepers. The difference to the Russian occupation and after the Russian okkpunatov squeezed from the land of all nations, is that now all the people to decide their own destiny alone!, No Russian presence. That's the main thing, think about it
Yes, I already scored, for I understood that all of this biomass that shit under the video comes on purpose, anyhow vysratsya. Not for education because they comes, namely the name of a reason to take a shit, people just such Katsap, shitty. So do not be like them, but just look at the fierce olegofreniyu ryuskih.
More stupid movie I saw. This is for people with low intellect film. If you compare the atrocities of the NKVD and the KGB against the Russian people in Tambov and the Kuban that OUN is babbling on the lawn. The Germans opened the prisons and let people NKVD rastrelivat without trial during the retreat. IT'S ALL ONE MOVIE! And while Bandera bad and NKVD pure angel?DEATH! Russia is a false story from the beginning to the present day! And to wash themselves pour dirt on the other of an independent people or do I make a film about the Vlasov?
Ahah, you funny. Quite the opposite. You suck a long time member of the Caucasians and relish. They cut you like a pig and he gets away with it. They fuck your women and steal your jobs. So it turns out that you suck, and relish and swallow: D
Finno-Ugric tribes ebalo above Krymsk raised. Once and quickly remembered stsuko! UKRAINE IS Slavs! Russia, Muscovy is a Finno-ugortsy! Shit, well, at least have a conscience!
And the Jews if they need to be and for fashistov.ne surprised - it ZhIDYpoddrezhivayut Bandera Ukraine.
ha ha ha ..Russians. Read what it says zhidovskoe huylo! memorable, never to SAVE THEIR ASS! Never. Let them cook out and sew the soap out of their skins mittens and slippers - we are not to worry - they are ungrateful creatures
Zrozumіv not?
And your hAzyain, you zombie.For you badly attended.The entire capital of the Rostov people ..Suzhdal capital Merya people ..Moore Capital Murom people ..Ryazan capital city of the people .. mAAskva Erzya, the capital of the people Moksel ..Where's the Slavs?Happy new year Finno-Finnish-tatarva!
I did not understand which of my statements you something Founded chauvinist. I am a supporter of the contrary, the fact that we, the Eastern Slavs to unite and live in peace and harmony. But the Scythian tribes came on present our lands from Asia, not vice versa. Teach history. And I'm not sure I approve of Kuban Cossack if it would be called a Ukrainian, they have their own nation - the Cossacks.
About chauvinism. The fact that you have absolutely all the de jure. De jure, there have international paradise equal rights and so on. De jure you federative system, the de facto unitary de jure what you have there is the Republic and so on. All this just in law including 66 languages. I am more than sure that no one is nowhere to provide services in any state institution.
Now when we are trying to not only Slavs divided and drawn into a fratricidal war with each other then those who do not we friends and our worst enemies that must be destroyed!
1942? hmm .... and for Bandera in 1941 was in the concentration camp of Sachsenhausen nemtskom?
After reading the previous comments I made to a conclusion - you impressionable people like you are very easy to manage.So are you doing is not logical conclusions. Even though you and a few hundred - it does not mean that all Ukrainians, just like you, which once again proves the absence Ukrainophobia. I personally know a few Ukrainians - great guys, good. Of course, it is unlikely you will understand what I have written. You just use to replace the spiritual values ​​and come to power.
Kills as shkalata rants about his heroism. You first need to read the story as he is in the 39th Poles destroyed, and then joined the Nazis.Other, then there are no heroes?
HEROES OF GLORY!
something you here zavralsya.vidimo you write another story ......
already amerskie trolls dizlaykov urge ;-))) Fuck. I fuck we win this information war with them then when that resource is owned by Amer and entire departments are sitting there and trolling ;-( ((If only our people exercise sound judgment and were not conducted to these provocations. This fucking amerskuyu opposition in any country to Kalash and merchandised on the square to the other and the thought did not arise about the split of the country!
Muscovites!!YOU will be examined with their heroes, and with her as we do anything straight.
Listen, sucker! Perhaps I, too, sosnesh?
The neighbors did to the people of Ukraine? Oh .. Jews, it probably ate alive Ukrainians? h Cannibals! need them for it properly revenge:-D Well, continue to lie and justify crimes Bandera ... They zdorovsko when villages were burned to the people:-D Germans disdain participate in such activities.Their soldiers rode roof, and you-hohlofashistov okay with the psyche, are you on time can endure :) And now retired on May 9, humiliate - is also quite a normal thing, keep it up
guys call for historical objectivity, but use every now and then propaganda stamps soviet type low ebb nationalist little world, "" political schizophrenia ", etc. This may say Mlechin historian says nothing about the origins of hatred of Ukrainians to the Poles - for Poles held a severe terror against the population of app. Ukraine - they cynically called it "pasifikatsiey." 
SMERSH call
Glory to Ukraine!
Not tyavky liquid until you get there in time!
see domestic war they won?. well then who are you?
So?Hitler and the Reich, this is a completely different topic, so I'll just say what is impossible to say, namely, that if it were not Hitler, no one knows what would have been Germany, now, because at the time she was severely lowered the country and only because he is not just a rose, though, would be a rose from his knees.
Type "educated" elegance? From you, zhidyatinoy a mile bear! Yuden!
Yeah, propaganda Mlechinskogo own opinion ;-) So you're here, it turns out, propaganda divorce!
Without the help of foreign forces of Britain, France, and Ukraine has nothing to Russia itself could not. Furthermore the second world war to a large extent on the tacit agreement between Hitler and Stalin, including the Covenant Rebentropa - Molotov in which Stalin and Hitler divided the Europe. Russia is not much resented the military when Hitler went to Poland. Stalin warned of a possible attack by Nazi Germany in 1935 to confirm your radiogram Sorge. 
Location of Lviv armed communists somebody can tell me?)))It's just a song!))
Bandera like chocolate under the Christmas tree for the New Year to all :)) All the best to you! ....
movchi is liquid tobi expression prevented
ie Poles have even seen that at the time your tongue was almost like a Russian
No nationality, "Ukrainian" or "Russian", we are one nationality - RUSSIAN. This is confirmed by historians about the origin of Russia. And the language was too one-RUSSIAN MOV. A "Ukrainian" and "Russian" is not a nationality and nation (citizenship) - ie the citizens of Ukraine and Russia. As well as "Siberian" - a resident of Siberia. A nationality Siberians in 80% Russian, too.
And exactly what nationality nerd in Siberia must disconnect? Altai Buryats Dolgans Kety (or Yenisei Ostiaks) Komi Muncie (or Vogulichi) Nenets Selkups (or Ostyak-Samoyed) Siberian Tatars of Khakassia Khanty Chukchi Shors Evenki Evens Yukaghir Yuga (the people) (or Sym Ostiaks) Yakuts Teleuts
pret patsanchiki although he honestly predeono
"A plant Electron Lviv, Lviv Bus Plant and also other production, created by Russian occupiers damned long rested in the Lord.What you rock at 22 Square and congratulate)) "There is no such plant LICs which would cost more expensive than zhiney pogibsheh from the tyranny of the Chieftains of the USSR. Only for" board "Stalin killed 67 million people! "No thanks, already without luchshe factory workers wash the floor than gnyt Solovki from the fact that you have an opinion that you do not want to be a" slave ""
And why in the Ukraine, all in sheepskin coats?
I learned not yet in school history when the Communists pisali.uzh trust her I just did not by.a's historical facts recorded and you will understand that it is necessary to chemu.ne here to share your role nashi.potomu and there were a lot of controversial issues and betrayals. as On the one hand, and on the other storony.vse understand that Cossacks covered south Rossii.no neighbors to the north were very goryachie.tak is not known in what language would be spoken in the Ukraine without Russia.
Yes, that's for sure, it was the American author of the book is objective and does "not uperedzhenі", well, just completely neutral .. Jokes you like?
The real history of Ukraine. Russ was a big country. First commence kamunistov convicted in Russia as the oppression of his people schitaetsa pristupnika Stalin more than Hitler is considered.Cada won two Cossacks Drevlyansky Russ and gave it nazat queen killed Kazakov. And did the state of Ukraine.Ana gave the Americans Alaska.And we zapritili molittsa our Gods "Rhoda", Perun, Veles, Kalyada both. Hammered force faith of Jesus.We are brothers raskaloli doing you by the Nazis to Europe for money.
Dear, read again my first post in this thread and see that you're the right subject RAZDUVAETE.Na situation you described - I live in Lviv over 10 years, I know the city well, responsibly declare that in the vicinity of w / Station (within 400 meters) there is no decent cafe.You're visiting the Privokzalny gadyushnik, to draw conclusions about the mentality of a minimum of Lviv.PS You still have not answered my question: "... the cafe was quiet ..." - What happened?
You generally have no point of view can not. Because you're an idiot. Sit down and not blather. 
Zhiruyut capitalists at the expense of the rest of the population? People with kapitallisticheskim minded to istrablyat from Earth Socialism? This is the highest form of human society, where there is a giant gap between the rich and the poor. Why Socialism periodically collapses in our history? Cause capitalist scum rednecks PREVENT BUILD COMPANY TO BE FOR THE PEOPLE Bandera scumbag UKROAINY executioner! He fought with the women and children, the elderly ..
, Hold yourself, Mongoloid! )) 
GOLIMOYA SHNYAGGAAAA ......RUSSIAN tale ....Stupidly
that's all you can think of in my head is not weighted brain :)
but as you bind the Russian and Soviet power? Is the Russian people was not the victim of genocide and victims of the Red Terror, the Bolsheviks. And what are your primetivnye factory for which the lives, well-being paid millions of Ukrainians in the concentration camps of the Soviet authorities, and even before the war in the NKVD of the same city.
You yourself have a cock in my life creature kike!
zrazy seen scho moskalska transfer ..... dumb propaganda
what an interesting Jewish cinema ...
Russia would not voluntarily release the Ukraine. She did not want the independence of Ukraine.
And believed that "Hitler will make Ukraine free 'to '45?
MDA VI assholes! DO NOT BANDERІVTSІ ROBILI! TO DIBІLNІ komunyakami PEREDІVALISYA In BANDERІVTSІV! I. ROBILI then VSІH BUT sight!  MOSKALІ VI waved Til'ky breshet BІLSHE NІCHO ROBITE I. NOT!
White Army also fought against the Soviet Union ..... but ...... but they are heroes???
I repeat once again! Hungarians have come and gone, the Poles to come and go. Hungarian gene hardly had time to appear. Here Polish - yes. They mixed some public areas (not all). However, this gene is retsesivnym gene. Ruska is a dominant gene, because the Ukrainians directly descended from Rusich.Ancient Russians, who were in the north just all mixed up with ugrofinskimi tribes in the range from 9 to 12 century. Cultural adjustment should be made as the Golden Horde.
Che surprising ...The longer ruled Yanukovych - the more I love Bandera.
Shas Ukrainians hohvy I stress not all Ukrainians are trying to justify crimes against Jews and Russian. They do not vygral this war pity fit snot affliction
Well you'll be like the Greeks in chocolate or a chocolate eye. 
Said, you pig, I'm your piggy movu not understand.Or in English or in Russian write.
I'm building a world - you build hatred. Your mother's painful for you
Katsap believe - do not respect yourself.
it can be seen - you can not find the way back - all the walk, which will be sent
yes ... hahlyandiya always was a whore .. what can we say here .. fucked them, and will fuck to fuck .. Bandera and this clown from the circus tent ... Crimea and should take these ebashit hahlov ... as Georgians .. a couple of days to put ... hahlushki cancer in our dens 20stoyat years now)))
Judging by your response, I tore YOUR POINT OF BRITISH FLAG! And yet you miraculously drowned OF WAFFLES ..HIHIHI and your language is still tickles MY ASS! AAAHHHAAA deffki! HERE YOU STUPID! by B writes MUDILO! AHAHAA You are so STUPID DIRECT Dumb and Dumber ..Katsap ONE WORD! Okay davy skype I'll plug the last time a member of the knock on the head and flow.This time will not deceive your mother .. I swear!hihi.Photo of uber YOUR POINT IF I POLIZHESH ONLINE on Skype. YOUR MOMMY NAEBU SWEAR!
Here we go again strelometstvo, all in the spirit of stupid hohluzke anal slaves.
I Opinion vashemuDvizhene betrayed.A axis bylMoy genitals.  Paul71Zibert
Listen, asshole today Fascism in power in Ukraine - a shame for Ukrainy.i Bandera killed primarily his, asshole
These lands belong to the Ukraine with the Kievan Rus.There lived the Scythians ancestors of Ukrainians, and since when they "entered" into the Russian Empire?It is time.Second Kuban-ethnic territory of Ukraine and the Kuban Cossack Host is displaced from (there is even now singing Ukrainian folk songs and "balakayut").And third, "I live on the land Tavriysky province of the Russian Empire"-you do not make friends with the head, or do you "own world" chtov basically equivalent?
Moron is you. before kommunyatskaya horde flooded in Ukraine in Ukraine was the Ukrainian National Republic.
Rusko suck dick
Banderlog hang.
Errant they ... Oh, and become anxious in the World
Sidi eat bacon
It's official newspaper.If you follow this "historical" logic, it turns out that Ukrainians are a nation that emerged 21 years ago.Clearly, at this nonsense and plain chauvinism.There is Ukraine is Russia, which is not the same thing.
I hope in Belarus, people such as Franz Kushel and Michal Vitushka will be presented to the award posthumously
Though I do not like Mlechin.But then he got to the point about the brothers Bandera.Why, after all this has gone on Bandera collaboration with the Germans?Why, after the camp moved to Berlin?Why in the concentration camp, he moved freely.Could at any time go beyond the camp.He had a special diet.
which he is a traitor, he killed smelly Muscovites have komunyakami, what would his native Ukraine has been an independent country!
You bleat, smart as pop Simon :-))) I vskhischen your erudition :-)))
Bandera is a shame Ukraine!
Finally it came with chicken ass woodpecker and brains!
shame of Russia in your country vide.zapoganili sorts PUTIN
I shit on this tricky Maskall my time. is like talking to a believer. --- so to speak about the word pussy. 
So in Egypt did not even know such a nation, a nation Ukrainians.We then though, would know by the way, they confuse you with us, and actually call you that, not us!
in shelf replenishment Hitler, another Nazi Hera
about Chechnya. National composition of the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1989 Chechens 734.5 (57.8%) Russian 293.8 (23.1%), Ingush 163.8 (12.9%), Armenians 14.8 (1.2%) The national structure Chechnya, Ingushetia 2010 + Total / / / Chechens 1,225,316 73.3% 27,597 1.6% Russian Ingush 387,003 23.1% 30,115 1.8% others think the figures here speak for themselves.
See you in his sights, a Nazi! Meanwhile, stray sheep, you have otsosesh to not get bored. Gonna suck bad. tell your gap-toothed fellow-beekeeper. So, have at it! 
Here crawled zhidomutant. Please note, citizens - it appears everywhere where you need someone to play off. In the plots of Caucasians - is trying to poison the Caucasus in Russian, and they to us, and in the story of the stupid crest-Natsik - IT ALREADY HERE! CONCLUSION: It is beneficial to the Jews,
EPT, which tries an independent state? Khokhlov gave independence since they are from the boobs just can not fall behind, gas block and pizdos, independence will end :) Although not all Ukrainians, Ukrainians, yesterday with normal people communicate, adequate.
Bandera junkie)))))))))))))))))))))
yes, soaked Muscovites, Ukrainians and Jews .. then came the NKVD-scribe Bandera and you ....
Bandera --- German henchman, the bandit and the executioner of the Ukrainian people.
EVERY WORD OF YOUR ANSWER IS YOU STICK IN POINT.OFFER-deepthroat my cock ..And then - YOU lick ME POINT ...Let's work ...HHHIIIIHHHIIHHHIII nuuuu LET starts sucking lick and swallow And I calculated how much you VYDERZHISH .....Waiting for answers about fagots with experience ..GGGYYYGGYY ..WHAT I WANT TO DO AND WITH YOU ..Oh, you dunce Nitsche NEW EXCEPT blowjob and cut YOU ARE NOT INTERESTED UMEESH.STAESH NOT EVEN malice ..Stick your tongue in my ass and worked.OOOO Oooo very best YOU ARE delaesh KATSAPIK
...Incidentally, it is not surprising if today Ukraine has turned into one big concentration camp for Russian ... And all thanks to the Nazi bastards who continue the work of the Austro-Hungarians, beginning of the last century .... (
And when you zhidogeroy born in or have no such wish-wish to congratulate you, and then somehow have to get used to you and your vile comments ...)))
These morons like you can not realize that teaching movu in Soviet times was unnecessary.The guide USSR were, surprisingly, very often natives of Ukraine :) And all spoke perfect Russian.Do you think that these people were geniuses and learn it faster?Dick in there!Russian Language United huge powerful country!This country is broken teeth Swedes, Napoleon and later Hitler.And these pioneers uscherbki offended as you are now trying to prove that the Ukrainian and Russian are not siblings))
another zhidokotsabskaya garbage)) 
Eat fat, you filthy pig!bamboo you in the ass
I'm also a fascist, and even from the Slavs, not eager to talk. No passaran
"The fact that you have absolutely all the de jure" - sorry, but I do not know any country where all would railway official. "I am more than sure that no one is nowhere to provide services in any state Establishm "- you do not know their status. 
We immediately see a Jew, or at least podsobnika Jews.Jews is a tumor of the planet.Of Jews, not what is not good.Read their Torah or Kabbalah and what they preach and preach, DL had someone not zhit he is not a man originally.Honour for what the Jews at different times all soaked.And as you look who seized factories, media, newspapers, businesses, etc etc.As an example, say: When zhydov Matride cut in about 1100 that korrupkiya instantly dropped by 600%.
Іdi goduyKadirova in dupu tsomnut yogo not forget ..Dupolizi ....
Russians!! so let it be Stalin, even though Bender s devil horns statue pose, lizhby granny paid for gas
Is considered Ukrainians malorosami is not chauvinism?This follows from the fact that you have to Ava Russian emblem and you support an anti-Ukrainian and anti-human general theory obedeneniya Eastern Slavs, the self-other under the auspices of Moscow.
Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchev - it's your real heroes. It is they who have created the Ukraine, not zalUPAntsy ... Muscovites and they killed more than Banderlog. Strange you. Loser loser Bandera, Shukhevych Mazepa monuments bet, and real heroes of Ukraine curse.
and here fagot showed up ..))
The film clearly ordered the Ukrainians have not even thought proud roots and his race.
I think because of this rampant Russophobia, which now exists in Ukraine, Russia will soon begin to really like is the anti-Ukrainian rally.
Nothing will soon die this project Ukraina.ni long remained with parties as svolota.
Wai-wai, what haroshy movie! Ivo I'll show the kids!Pachimu these stupid hahly foshizdov Hiro believe it? They foshizdy in the street walking and shouting Heil Hitler, how can this go on, huh?
Thank you ... for responsive care of my health - honestly did not expect much from the amiable young chelovega muzzled such wishes to hear! ...) .... Tell the tale of the night and a gang shlyuhevicha benderastov?
14 \ 88 RIGHT SAID OUR UKRAINIAN BROTHER! Glory to Russia!
Glory to Heroes!!!!!!!!<wbr> -!
my roots are in general that the Kuban and the Donbass. and I myself live in Poltava)))) Not me nazyvatsya "zapadentsev"))) While considering that the Far East, Siberia and put C Kuban - is a Ukrainian ethnic lands, then maybe you're right, I Poltava is "zapadentsev ", in relation to the Far East)))
do not rule out a dumb animal that you do not understand - ignorance Banderlog well known. Enough to take a look at your Radu.
What other nationalities. Do not be ridiculous. Only 250 thousand, of which about 70 thousand surrendered then. Oh, right, these fighters Square, the brave. None won the battle, one defeat, why do you need such heroes who fought only against the civilian population? 
Georgia can be maintained for objective reasons. In the EU can not join imeyuchi ispoveduyuchi liberal economics and conservative in the spiritual, so if the Freedom Party was pravlyachey not yet be in the EU.
Stefan Bandera a hero of Galicia, but what's the Ukraine. Not to be confused with the small western Nazism Great Slavic, our common home - Glorious Russ!
This is so he tried to make Ukraine a rebellious?topwar. ru/2467-zverstva-banderovcev.h <wbr>-tml
Yeah .... so why do you prefer the Russian Mercedes his crappy car industry? To need your factory Ochumelye pens in Europe, and they do not want to yourself, but you have to eat trash and slop, for what would be your more successful parteigenosse could be content with the German or American car. Even the computer on which you barabanesh the keys to your backward production has nothing to do)))))
What can you say, not knowing no dick. you do not understand, thought to korobochku!
Yes, I've got to not only send, I shoot a sparrow.
Everyone needs to understand that Ukraine want to divide into pieces, as Yugoslavia, and to do that they have to encounter people on ethnic, religious, social and ideological soils. Nationalist sentiment youth do not understand that. Many do not realize that in a war against each other will die of their parents, children, the closest people. And for what?
, Why such "masters" do not have to help but instead must be protected from them, our people, to protect our people from the thieving bankers and their representatives in the government, and we must protect our very earth from those who want to organize their nuclear svalki.i is necessary to protect our habitat from uninvited guests dirty immigration, drug sellers and religion.
Just do not think that I bleach Bandera
... And can you put into question the fact that the first and Terezin concentration camp Talergof existed? After all, there destroying the Russian people, who refused to be written in Ukrainian and artificial language learning (current MOV) 
Deputy Chief of Abwehr II, Erwin Stolz: - "Shortly after termination due to Bandera was arrested for trying to form a Ukrainian government in Lviv.To rush due to Bandera was used the fact that the latter, in 1940, received from the "Abwehr" a large sum of money to finance the underground created to organize subversive activities, trying to assign and moved to one of the Swiss banks, where they were taken by us and again returned to Bandera ... "
But we have, circus clowns, love. Because you Rogul svinorylye, can not even explain what you idolize their Bandera. Because I think he's Man of the saint, and Stalin - vbivtsey. Who told you, you idiot, that we revere Stalin?? A monument to him at least one find? 
the Union is just the facts is silent participation of Ukrainians in the mass murder of civilians. But everything else has proven to Nyurberge. No need to make heroes of the Nazis.
... People were not asked when the royal family were shot by Latvian riflemen, and you do not have to explain who made the revolution in the 17th ... 
Ie You heroes are murderers? Is this normal? Holocaust in Lviv and cleansing of civilians did not this scum? I do not know, we have, for example, Chikatilo was not declared a hero. What does the Stalin repressions that you all love to blame one barrel. You with the Poles in the 20-30's life was a hundred times worse, when you are treated like cattle. And when Stalin was returned to you and the language and culture of the land. 
In Russia, I was not at all.Thanks, of course, for the advice, but I'm also not a fool.Basically you too different from their barbarous countrymen, then you know why western Ukrainians are so different from the eastern and that there should not be said.)
VІCHNA your memory of the butt Stepanov VI VI VI HONOR GLORY
Stepan Baneder nothing luchshe, he did not participate for United Russia?!
Degenerate, you have long been ruled by the Jews - European, American and your Jews and all of you crowing to Russia (they invented it too) you crowed all the Jews .. cockerels 
Hang traitors with their families ...
Mnda, svidomitskoe bydlostdo in Little negaduet ...
Europe will soon fall apart ... for them the U.S. will weaken very much .... then with benderami talk when there is no one to stand up for them will not))))
If she had not stood up, the name of the Polish town of Auschwitz today, no one would have uttered in a figurative sense. And we would not have lost the Amber Room and Samosna of Peterhof. And on the pedestal "Horses" by Claude would not have potholes from fragments of German shells. And indeed Germany under NATO today is not bent to. 
Do you even understand yourself then who hates whom and where??Dick was not shirk lessons now Dauch words together can not.Poludurok, go to the military, it may even die for good reason :)
old hahlyatskie nipples with tracks like always show that sucking dick owner is purely hahlyatski and continue from century to century, dick sucking and cum on her snout svinohahlyachemu spread grunting with pleasure on benderlozhi
Banderlog not know what they do ...
That's it, that Moscow was founded prince of Kiev. This proves once again that Kiev - RUSSIAN CITY. And who are the Ukrainians? Where is the mention of Ukraine and Ukrainians in ancient chronicles? Present! Ukroblyadi - is a mutant that formed as a result of mixing of the Turks, Tatars, Khazars, and Poles. People's Hero of Ukraine - Cossack Mamai, the name speaks for itself. Ukroblyadi - is scum and degenerates who should be cut.
He is a hero.He fought for independence.
baneravtsam death!
Well before, and there was no "Language Society" - a dialect of the Russian language in Ukraine, the words were all very similar and have the same root.And the fact that you are now forced upon Canadians, has no relation to Ukraine.
in the second. it is my business where I live and what I do  
I read a comment ... In connection with these morons in their fecal procession should not worry too much ... Most people adequately perceive the reality and they have language does not turn coward and traitor traitor called a "hero" Marginals and debris is in any society ... Although, they certainly do not care sorry ... they can be and love their country, their brains just as many years, this propaganda was washed, they have the truth vospirinimat can not!
Freak, and who betrayed whom? I am your dwarf oath not given. It would be better with the Turks than with freaks like us in the north. Die "brothers", without you the world will be cleaner.
done for you freak, hate speech
May be considered heroes racists and murderers?I will never understand ...
You should not fellow Ukrainians on GDP comes over. Insulting people. He is also a human agent, and as it tries to save himself and his family. How could it pulls the complete collapse of Russia.And to his credit.He dances well to the tune lezginka apple ..
Leonid Mlechin done! This film should be seen every normal Ukrainian.
Pokachestvenney tidy Tbilisi, and then after a couple of years will come to sign the Act of Handover of the Southern Federal District of Russia :))))))
udivissi ... herd shkoloty - benderovtsev not familiar with the history that they had decided to true Aryans and soon will get to all:-D Soviet authorities put their cancer and driven underground for half a century ... and here they suddenly with the arrival of American whores - yuscha got out into the world and now heroic shit in comments, but mock retired on May 9, as they say :)!? Sala Hero!? :)))
Ah, so you are, with its Square, the separatists in check!
In Chechnya, put things in Georgia have put, put things on the rest of the Caucasus.And Ukraine eventually flow into the vehicle, despite pressure from the West, perhaps not all.
beat a number of like-minded people who want to fit their idea to remake a teritory not grown together so why should the rest break to pieces under him believing that all stupid and Bandera hero hero for his kolektiva it for me, he is not the authority he purposefully strong spirit but for me he was a fascist
I am proud of his krainoyu.
Not a slap, Ukraine was not, and never will be, erasures oslyachaya. You also understand and so mad, obmudok.PS You're funny with that warped his Russian.
I like you did not answer anything of substance to my statements. Therefore, in such remarks I will not pay attention.
Trotsky and Sverdlov-gnroi fagot))
Bandera SUCK!HELLO Ukrainians and Zakarpattia RUSSIAN E!
Go on ... here lies the lack of historical foundation. Ukraine - not a single area on which there is a presently existing state, and Ukraine-margin, or if you prefer, at the edge. This is just a border area, the Far East and Kazakhstan in the Russian Empire were the same in Ukraine. Now for the Ukrainians, there is no nation, no such language (you are ready to shoot me already?))), But it's true! Facts-find yourself if you want. I will give a hint syntax ... find differences.
Immediately necessary to understand elementary thing, if on Lviv pogroms not yell at every corner, it is likely the Jews of Bukovina anything about it and do not know. What's so and so? And - it's since OUN UPA led fight Moskal, Yids lyahami yes - then what can you say that? Well, yes - can only write stories ...
So I had it and did not deny it's just a story, in my opinion, the grade 10.
PS2. Under the distribution and accidentally got to hitch a subject who had run with the "native Vkrainy" pissing rags. Those, who did not really want to leave, had to hurry to immigrate to the forests and swamps, where they were a few years sluggish sucking huytsy yes occasionally entertained themselves by raids on the Korowai and sawing commies and other dissenters to the teachings of the great Ukraine.
I already told you, the geek that Ukraine is yours - it is Lviv and the surrounding area. Everything else - is RUSSIAN LAND, which was Russian for centuries, until the Judeo-Bolsheviks gave her your ebannoy outskirts. Sebi from the occupied Russian territories - and none of your Ukraine and not a bad word to say. And while continuing occupation of the Russian lands - cut ukroblyadey - it is the duty of every self-respecting Russian and Orthodox Christian. Death to the Occupiers! Fuck you bring down LIONS IN THEIR! 
Talking crap, I take the data from Wikipedia, which is for your information censor everything that is written against the WGA and the EU, the genocide in Chechnya if he would he would have been for Russia not show partiality. and wikis vystovila him on the front pages. and the WGA have trumpeted this at all St. Pete, and it does silence. If this wiki svyatoch freedom and liberalism for you institute herding, then bring the numbers that will explain what happened in Chechnya 300,000 Russian, for 10 years.
in his biography is still a whole lot of places from which papahivaet, izvenyayus, govnitsom. sorry people = a tool that can vtyuhat this idol
I really would not call himself a Polish word "Ukrainian". That is why the geeks of the UPA killed "skhidnyakiv" more readily than "Moskal." Against heroes Galician completely dead against 51 percent of themselves "skhidnyakiv." Nazis always enough. Svidomy, lol. I did not think in runet they still remain. If I was involved in this, would be proud. Hopefully, because like I Ruthenia return back to Russia, the Nazis will go before a tribunal, and Galicia will become a separate state.
Ukraine - the name for both in Russia and in the borderlands of Poland. Ukrainians now called the citizens of Ukraine, where there is not referring to the ethnic context, and the context of citizenship. This is not a nationality but a nation. Just as the Russians are citizens of Russia. Ethnicity is another word in Russian.
Film - Russian stupid shit!
I do not know, Yuri, I'm not a communist, I did not wish to interfere with Ukrainian Nazis (but in general all the Nazis) as soon as possible to accept the fact that they are willing to do to others.
You underdeveloped kid, you know a little something about the history of your own country! You on powdered brains and made a hero of the fascists and the Bandit. Bandera was Gitlerskoy litter! If you think of something that Hitler was right, means you have not the brains, and it is useless arguing with you. Just go to one sunny day and back to grab your Hohlyandiyu and your Catholics and other Western pizdabolov send in theirs favorite rotten NATO Poland. 
Kike heresy! Jews everywhere at different times, soaked and wet and always for the same thing, first of all in Ukraine - the enemies of the Jews, Muscovites.
MUSIC .. prison ...)Head of the 2nd Department of the Abwehr, Colonel Erwin Stolz: "...In October 1939, I was attracted Lahuzenom Bandera work directly in the Abwehr. By its nature, Bandera was an energetic agent and at the same time a great demagogue, careerist, a fanatic and a gangster who neglects all principles of human morality to achieve their goal has always been willing to commit any crime .... " (Nuremberg. Book. Moscow, 1952, Vol 2, p. 643-644).
We're not talking about Russian writers belonging to the Tatar nationality, and talking about before you open your mouth, poroysya in your shit and find a much shit that it is better not to open my mouth so as not stank around. Who Tartar who Slav produced froze his skull and find out what nationality you.
Ukrainian nationalists have always been stubborn in every way to whitewash Hitler's henchman - Bandera and blaming the war crimes of the Red Army.Stupid, no future, who find the meaning of his life only in hatred of the Russian they can not even. but rather do not want to face the fact that, of those killed in western Ukraine in the postwar years, the NKVD was 30%, the remaining 70% (from 50 to 70 thousand) kombedovtsy, rural activists and other Ukrainians. 
i suck at putіna little Jew Mendel-medvЄdeva. :) ...... i have Kadirova, yakomu pay tribute for those dwellers do not rіzali.
I am glad that you are familiar with criminal activity Bandera ... so when you are wet, you really do not obesud ...
.I. Pine trees huytsa 
Uezhay, nothing prevents
Hear, Russian, here UPA our dislike, but it is you zaebok: special units "Militia", Kaminski Brigade, Armored Brigade "Russland", Russian National People's Army Division ROA Groups Saboteur-Teens, form <wbr> - , tion ROA in Crimea, Division "Background Shtumpfeld" Volunteer Battalion "Varyag", First Russian National Army.And I think this is not a complete list. 
Imbecile lapotny what Armenian nose, which swept away? With its manichkami go to the doctor. I have a profile on YouTube there is a link to my blog, there's my photo. Much I like habalki with Armenian nose? Once again - get well lapotnaya pig. 
.What is the difference for what is cut population - in the name of Ukraine, the Third Reich or the bright communist future.Butchers they are the butchers.
Little Russians always envied Great Russia!On today's example proved Vital washed :))) 
Who wrote about it a shame Bandera Ukraine, the uncouth nedolugy komunyakami, history, people learn. Not in school textbooks for 1961 and newer take, and that the light of his stupidity here. And monsters who say this about Ukraine and about our true heroes is simply minded descendants displaced freaks from the Ryazan province where even people still do not know how to read, and are only able to guzzle vodka yes strum balalaika and grandfather Stalin dick sucking. A 
100% of a hero. A man who could not secure a just old age - a friend of the Germans, then put dick on packaging and knock a place warm near Berlin. could negotiate with the Soviet Union in exchange for protection to leave the post. could with polyakami.mog after the war and put the dick for asylum in the West - there would be no such right vzyali.nihuya. remained true to his cause, even when it became obvious that Ukraine will not be independent in the next 10 years, did not leave his. lived in poverty until he was killed.
suchary aspiring
... You look, you will understand how there was "Ukrainian", everything is easy to understand and without trying to promote something ... The film went to the documentary evidence, which were declassified not so long ago ... And the fact that in the west of Ukraine is still trying to destroy the Orthodox Church - is hoping to prove you do not have to - look - "devils Bandera. Galitsai = policeman."
Independence from integration type of Well gained independence only became worse tenfold in Ukraine. Dick knows Che's going on, but independence. People who fuck on whom, would get pissed off that western! The main thing that was money.
Muck about Bandera write mostly Russian or "Donetsk". Both are not fluent in Ukrainian history. especially the history of the Western Ukraine.
do you want to fight with me?
Yes you are correct question is about quantity, that few were in OUN but you zabluzhdaeshsya while writing why including basic logical thinking and taking kallk handle is in a computer and zayaydya Telegram search system to do NEXT to take inf 1939 qty Ukrainian living in p Zbruch Galicia Volyn LVOVSKII I live in it Ternop Frankivsk then pschitay from 39 g to 41 how much scoop brought to Siberia ounovtsev count how many died under an hour showdown with Melnyk those offered cooperation with the Germans, but
Bandera destroyed my race; Their hands were stained with the blood of hundreds of thousands of Jews, Gypsies, Poles and Ukrainians killed in Ukraine in establishing a "new world order."Two teenagers Gorshkevicham brothers who tried to call for help of these guerrillas cut the stomach, legs and arms cut off, abundantly covered wounds with salt, leaving the half-dead to die in the field. Only in this village was brutally tortured 173 people, including 43 children.
Via clever :)
What are you so interested in - exactly where I live? I live in St. Petersburg. Money I do not pay for it - this is nonsense! ))) Just a shame that two people have CTE. so much in common, thanks to West Catholic. uncouple politics. Are you happy to sing to their tune. Is not it clear that the union of friendship and mutual benefit? But hostility and hatred will not give anything good to anyone.
If in 1939-1941 gg Soviet authorities took so actively debunk the mass terror of western Ukrainians hope of a better life in the Soviet Ukraine, than under the pressure of the reaction of Poland until 1939, it is very possible that the history of UPA would be the history of the heroic guerrilla struggle against the Ukrainians only Hitler's troops, and not a totalitarian regime of the USSR. Never rosiyane were perceived as enemies of Ukraine Ukrainians
Oh how easy to adjust to the tragedy of Russian Seba!
Stalin killed more people than Bandera. Remember the 1937 purge of thousands, millions of people by security officers beznevinno firing squad "enemies." Then solemnly posthumously rehabilitated by Khrushchev. A artificially created famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 when the villages, the troops went prodrazvertki taking the last grain from farmers every penny. Stalin, Khrushchev reported cases of cannibalism, the 1932-1933 in Ukraine. And Stalin denounced his nationalist and reproached izlichnoy flabbiness. 
Well, scum, that you have brought myself to clean water. Hitler vypolzen
We still fuck your "free" country. While only economically, when a "friendly" people Ukrainians our Empire naebyvaet you to fucking dollars. Well, you probably heard about humiliating you stories with the gas)))))))?
Poor, easy to manage, so the communists began mental debilitation naseleniyaOni taught you materitsyaKulturnomu person listening is disgusting, but you gordishsya this!Therefore, Russia is stalling, it struck korruptsiyaHochesh save Russia - start from yourself. Throw swear. America sell Russian products for their gold
So svyinobyk, I was born and raised in the cultural European country and not used to talking to the Asian cattle, which, apparently, you otnosishsya, hat smelly as barbarians behave just Asians, but not Russian, and certainly not the Slavs, so or say basically the reasoning, or with his 5-mates continue to confirm the status of Russia as a wild Asian country in the eyes of Europe and the world.
Thanks flattered :)
svinaryly and you on what route to Bendery dick for sperm to his svinohahlyatskoe ebalo for sperm aspirated pahavat with hunger?
Nobody summarizes, we know that these roosters despise the Ukrainians from the east and Russian. This creature - as zhidomuly in Russia
Ukrainians do not recognize once and not only Ukrainians but the weight of the world. and we will see very soon your svinorilie Mordy when the Caucasus will be free.
I can not say 100%, but I write "Medvedev has himself admitted that he was a Jew" --- and there is a series of videos and novostey.esli this installation or Shaw --- then it is strange Action, seen oproverzheniy.on made to Israel, as they are there to again give enroll Jew - so I knew it.
Ukrainians there since there was a Kievan Rus in the IX century. In the period of greatest prosperity Kiev Russia occupied the territory from the Taman Peninsula in the south, the Dniester and the upper Vistula River in the west to the upper reaches of the Northern Dvina River in the north. By the middle of XII century entered into a state of political fragmentation. Up until the Mongol invasion (1237-1240) formally Kiev continued to be considered the top table of Russia, and Kiev principality remained in the collective ownership of the Russian princes.
Some of his come true (!) predictions, "Casey predicted two world. wars, date of start and end, predicted economical. crisis in '29, is described in detail. crash on the stock exchanges, and saw the latter. rise in '33. He sounded shocked. Germans in the Kur. arc, the end of fascism and Soviet victory in WWII. For several. months. to death when painted. army strode to Europe, he said that the Soviet Union will soon fall apart, "Do not have time to end in XX century, as the crash comm-ma. Komm.-you will lose its authority. " 
worth remembering the Russian SS Division RONA and Lokotskoy republic in Bryansk in 1941 1943's, the size of Belgium.
I have these bastards like you despise. Learn to read first. I to do as far as the sky. Do not like Bandera leave for Russia. Honor instructive story archive documents of the SBU. But your mind this is not enough.
Well, how you got there in the most impoverished countries of Europe? population dies out, all whores in Russia came out of your margin. pathetic nation without nationality, without past or future. 
Jews for everything correctly said. 
I somehow will not come :) I sit myself tihonechko in Brussels and get money from the Americans to the collapse of Mother Russia's it :) But in general seem tough Islamization of Western Europe, they really will come soon skiff but not ekonoicheskom terms, but rather in ethnically and culturally. Here the church rework bars and discos, cultural level falls much .... while mosques are mushrooming and Islam looks up.
Stalin congratulated Hitler on his victory over Poland in late 1939 to December 31st, Stalin and Hitler exchanged Christmas greetings.Hitler - Stalin: "Best wishes for your well-being and the future prosperity of the peoples of the friendly Soviet" Stalin - Hitler: "The friendship of the peoples of Germany and the Soviet Union, cemented by blood, has every reason to be long and strong" Stalin congratulated Hitler on his birthday and presented fabricated "Mercedes-Benz". 
All dreams predaeshsya empty asshole with a pen? Oh well :)
s well, each with its own character. I like Alksandr Great, Julius Caesar, Alexander Nevsky, Alexander Danilovich Menshikov, Mikhail Kutuzov. although I certainly somnivayus, but for someone else heroes Andrei Chikatilo and Palko Morozov case you are not related?
Come child, teach lessons. Grow up and he'll understand that you're wrong, but I understand the language well, and I live in the Ukrainian city of Kiev hero, and like you, we pussy on May 9, do we have such a tradition forbid pussy Bandar sheep. It is interesting and you did it come from? 
Looked at 5 minutes, turned off, I realized the film is a biased attitude towards the hero "of the film," minus all the success, kids
You miserable man! I feel sorry ..You know - they will still be in the majority like their parents. That's not so long ago saw the story: in one of the Moscow school where children of wealthy people conducted a survey among high school that you think about Stalin "- almost all said they approve of his activities - teachers in shock - in textbooks and taught to others because they are different, but children otvetiliOBNADEZhIVAYuSchE - We understand that this is propaganda and do not believe. Ukr A feud and Russia inflates the West and the Jews
And what did they get in konslager? Stepan Bandera was a Nazi collaborator, ie, Reich helped kill people. If the Germans had won the war, you and your nebylo Bandera. It would not be a policeman killed him, the Germans would be shot. And on account of their ancestors. I, too, died in the war and that. Defending his people died. 
Naturally, the Russian did not like it when there are calls to cut them.
Chuєsh zhIDINYa! Not only have the Wehrmacht UTILІZOVUVAV. Galicia is liquid in Greek-Orthodox ceremonies KATOLITSKA Vira NOT KATOLITSKA TI melodic mATsI OBZHERSYA ABOUT YOU IN kREMLІ rotten proіnstruktuvali іzya
Essence Banderlog and venality and treachery. It's in the genes.
If in 1939-1941 gg Soviet authorities took so actively debunk the mass terror of western Ukrainians hope of a better life in the Soviet Ukraine, than under the pressure of the reaction of Poland until 1939, it is very possible that the history of UPA would be the history of the heroic guerrilla struggle against the Ukrainians only Hitler's troops, and not a totalitarian regime of the USSR. Never rosiyane were perceived as enemies of Ukraine Ukrainians
Based on what you have done all these conclusions?You were in the west of Ukraine?You vidil who that lives and how there seems to Russian or to Bandera?Where did you get this information? Otkudaty tyagnebyk know what will do cleaning? : DTy thinking brain, the fact that in my head, you know how?I will say one thing, remember that history is written by pobeditili and brainwashed! Do not make conclusions based on the words on the one hand not even idev place of action!
What bleesh provocateur? 
Is liquid! Soon, we'll arrange Lions 1941!
happened to notice your comment, I think that it's not kleetsya, nteresno why would the Poles who created the Ukrainians lower their language and religion?And how can Polonised what already is, Polonised * Ukraisnky * (opolyacheny Russian).And it is a derivative of Ruthenians * Russian * ie the true population of land that now conventionally called * Ukraine *.Though of course you have a contrary view))
Not Yet Perished!
Bandera talk on the wild mix of Ukrainian and Polish and partly rural dialect (sometimes on a regular surzhik) that no one but them can not understand, but it sounds like this whole thing is very funny even for ukrov owning their movoyu. Very offended when they indicate their spelling errors. In response, they begin to spread rot to the author's post (which hurt them) is, "What is it, Maskall" and the kind of phrases: "Yes you scho PanymaEsh In UkRayNskIy MTIE" etc.
Xxxxxxx! Ugh!!
Galicia is a place where planted artificial yazik, first Poles, Austrians then criminal kakolichestvo planting. And then this vafen arranged slaughter them for meat, as well as with the fascists plisudskim gentry. One you people, one a little blood, and the Great White, the fact.
Which tries hero? heroes were those who home and all of Europe freed from this shit and his ilk
Yes, I would take, but I'm not the government, is not authorized to, and neither do you.
FEMALES EBANNYE
As against your intentions so katsap Hitler, right?I am from Odessa.And I know very well how to relate to neofashistikam here, so do not speak for everyone here. There was an attempt rozprostranit fascism to the south, when in 2009 in the Crimea on 3 buses were brought to them. Himself look like people otganyali this abomination.When napadyut on veterans, tear georgivskie ribbons trample flowers / wreaths laid at memerialu victory in Lviv is a name?Sorry not dodavit Stalin this rot, it is now overgrown zanogo
Durick - Ukraine is not outskirts and the center and outskirts of this is a country Moksel in swamps and forests ---- so lie your authors.Taras Bulba - this is fiction and not history and the author himself jumped on a convenient language, well-paid.
Podoh pyatuh in his mouth down.
It has now become fashionable to say that to blame the Russian Communists. And your hohlyatskie vyblyadki like innocent and at the time were Democrats? Who do you want to cheat?
As it wisely named: the Austro-Hungarian whore. She was and will be remembered by all.
And you suck at us, you love to do it.
Information: Igor Kolomoisky Jew to whom owes its creation Ukrainian fascist Freedom Party is a native of Ukraine has received Israeli citizenship and permanent residence to Switzerland .. So it is very clear from the way the wind is blowing .....
you feel better, my words - "I to shit on Ukraine and particularly to that part of the population kotoroya From birth, the brain tumor that affects nazrenie poninie and complete with the perception of reality.
And why would Russia pulls Ukraine in its Customs Union in exchange for the "cheap gas." Why Russia is not beneficial integration of Ukraine into the EU and NATO? Russia has plans for a revival or correct to say build a new Russian empire in the post-Soviet space where the center would be making would be in Moscow.
Stalin bad? .. Cut a Jewish, Russian, Polish families Bandera like the guys were nothing like this ... zaebatelskie? :) In the 20s years, who wanted to leave the union - left) Pro ship with the intelligentsia in the course? :)
a bastard can be the "leader" of the same bastards lie near their chistoslovyanskoy "bets Khan" (Kremlin Katsap tartare). )))) And I'm not citizen of Lviv. and enemies sossssei the whole world!))))) Lviv is not enough.
USSR was 17 times more of Kievan Rus and the Russian Empire in the 20th, I decided to measure pussy?
5.Did you read the commas below and find your attitude to "the Jews"))) "In any case, they are promoting Ukrainian Ukraine ..."-and that is why the Jews are called Jews.They always was known, the word "Jew" no one was using.The Russians, by the way, the <wbr>-same.In Lithuanian (in the literary language) there is a single word, which is called the Jews in the Russian transcription [f and g and c].
Yes, I must admit that S.Bandera and a number of "ounovtsev" actually spent some time under the conditional arrest at Camp "Sachsenhausen", and before that he lived in the country intelligence "Abwehr". The Germans did it with far-reaching goals, intending to use the Bandera and further into illegal work in the Ukraine. So he tried to create an image of the enemy of Germany. But most of all they feared that the massacre in Lviv, it just destroyed.
Now, denounced Stalin for mass repression! He could not do otherwise, the terms were enemies and nationalists ready to stab in the back of the new Soviet government! Hohlyatskie Natsik were worse than the Germans!
Vuyki rage! Well, what is heroism at grannies throw? Or is it a great testament Bender?
Lech, yes you bathert, as they say, is detected.
Look how Russian bastards raspatyakalis ... Putin go suck ass! Get out of the free people, pigs!
I know that Stepan Bandera was a fagot?!
of choosing the lesser of two evils (for the moment) is not it? :)
Stepan Bandera and Yaroslav Stetsko in 1942, announced the creation of an independent Ukrainian state in western Ukraine. Let your money - Bandera karbovanetses. For trying to secede were planted in a Nazi concentration camp Zaksenhaus where he stayed until December 1944.
You yourself wrote that Bandera was a citizen of Poland! What the dick in a foreign country, he fought against the communists killing enemies Communists (Polish)? Go get well woodpecker!
Zaydit on YaPfayly i have naberit Poshuk-site video-Bandera.Duzhe tsikavo.
I agree - no banderovets ever killed a single person! This is true you probably arranged ;-)
ALL the so-called "UKRAINIAN nationalism" was created by Jews, and they themselves RUKOVODILSYA.PRIMER, Leo-in-arms Rebet BANDERY.KTO says he Ukrainian?Jews in Ukraine has always had a huge impact, even more than in RUSSIA.
You moron!
But he is at one with the Nazis was the SS. Stalin and Beria's hero in Russia, do not give. Everyone understands that they are murderers. Something in Ukraine do not then you ........
Creature, Lord, what creatures! Heroes, their mother! Fought only with unarmed population! But now, at the City Hall poderzhku anniversary division celebrate! Motherfuckers. I hate you!
Stepan Bandera fought on two fronts for independence from Russia and from Nazi Germany. He dreamed of an independent Ukraine, and his dream came true.
what are you sick .. people.
Not vedis for cheap American propaganda, and Analyze yourself, read books of different ages.We are trying to push their heads.
nigger, go fuck your folder. at kaklov itsest-in high esteem
Population before and AFTER predatvelstva country: Lithuania - <U+2006> 3706299 - 2988 400latviya - 2668140 - 2067 887estoniya - 1566000 - 1294 000Okraina - 51,870,400 - 45,559 200Ostalnaya Russia - 148 600 000 - 143,400 000Itogo as shaved by a dick: Lithuania - 19.4%, Latvia - 22.5%, Estonia - 17.4%, margin - 12.2%, the rest of Russia - 3.5% That's the price of treason. By the way, hohi, do you think a more Addik soaked?
Hahaha, Finnish-Finno-Tatar Sasa Vzdrocherkov loves to suck Cheburashka, guzzle vodka, gas and a snack to fuck bears))) Listen carefully: the best of what could be in your glass in the ass and your mother left a dirty stain on the mattress, you fuck at conception))))) 100% you usually internetnopizdyaschee schmuck, which solves nothing and can not in this life, equipped with conventional descendant Tatars from Asia, I do not talk with the barbarians.Run ahead, Vzdrocherkov and Cheburashka is your guy rapes))))))
He fought for fascism or rather racism. No arguing against the fact!The same thing as saying that Hitler was a hero
Stepashka banderashka - scumbag Ukraine and Europe's ass!The hands and the feet Banderlog ebashte from Ukraine. 
Leading this film Jew! It already says a lot!
To fuck, Bandera to fuck, today will cripple few easy Bandera, HI from Odessa, America cocksucker! 
on the "good will" not "perepresyagayut" :) One or the other ... It is like your invention "perepresyaga voluntarily":-D Do you think all such independent needs Ukraine west? Hell yeah there! You need them under control .. Europe and America will have to stroke the head only when you're on Russia tyafkat as Saakashvili :) Do you think you are waiting for the EU? Yes they are there naprinimali Balts, the Poles .. Do not know what to do with them :) 
I will curse the rest of his life scum Kravchuk which brought to power the same scum banderoiud geeks of the executioners sadistic maniacs. All this scum now in power upadenki Orangemen different there yuschi Timokha kravchukisty ..
Met. A. Sheptytsky was the only church in Europe, who wrote a letter to the Pope, and personally to Himmler, in protest against the genocide of the Jews. He not only saved himself a lot of Jews but to organize a massive campaign to shelter Jews which were zadeyanny hundreds of priests and nuns, and saved thousands of lives. "When I call Andrew Sheptytsky saint, I'm not exaggerating," - Rabbi David Kahane, "Righteous Among the Nations», Die Zeit, 27 December 1985
you're so funny hahahaha
If it were not Russia ... Ukrainians as a nation do not become even during the "Rzeczpospolita"
Soviets did not attack Poland! RKKA voshlav Poland September 17, when her government was already in London and went to the old border. Churchill recognized the legitimate actions of the USSR.
Europe, they are forced upon America, and America are only needed as a base on our border, everything.More they or anyone for anything unnecessary.Only know how to shout about the Russian threat and arrange processions SSovtsev .. what you learn from them heroically :)
they live on their own land in their own way, live, and in no such thing as nuzhdayutsya.est separatism, rebellion in drugomu.vo all times, in any country, in any nation, these revolts were suppressed, or around the world some Russian everywhere?and secondly against the people no one fought, fought against the bandits, murderers such as Hitler, but have not even hatched before you velichiya.u sided view of what happened, so discuss this topic with you does not make sense 
No better you did!
The fact that you sent tries and you stay there, ask the native state of the economy, your joy on this occasion is quite clear to any psychiatrist, be happy in the future. kyev long been under the Tartars, if you do not know, and cut there Horde .. can someone you gone to heaven for torture, but not happy, looking at you. I do not know whether you yourself believe in the return of Kursk, and so on. Now you'd better think about how to keep that got fumbled and not drag your Pakshi to someone else. 
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(9*60+36);return false;'> 9:36 </ a> what about that special units of the NKVD under the guise of the UPA to kill civilians naslenie? have not heard? but it's true. believe the nonsense that the army of volunteers from villages usually kill the neighbors, and the same Ukrainians, can only fully zombie creature.
In Yugoslavia, against whom he also Popper, besides Germany?
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(9*60+21);return false;'> 9:21 </ a> "acceleration kolektivizatsyya before the war," so you have a call Famine 32-33? burn in hell for all the accomplices of Stalinism!!
Yes you heroes mostly with peaceful unarmed population to fight! During the war only 200 thousand Poles massacred! And as for the front you have sent to the front lines against the Red Army - skedaddle. Because your Nachtigall disbanded Germans. And then your "heroes" 201 security and police battalion sent carat. Raids carried out in Belarus against the guerrillas and peasants. That this was a strong, yes.
Bandera idiot malo.sam what their country sold the Nazis so very beautiful tusovatsya.a our brothers Ukrainians blind navernoe.raz considered a hero of the Inhumans
little rat, Stepan not seen much of the world.Perhaps that's why he looked like a rat ..
Since this is what you are ruining his life
Goebbels crying. 
did not even look, put dislayk and left. Cattle-propaganda - for the animals.
Hurray! Our Bandera! vіdkrito monument! Uraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
1.Why do I have the following data: I'm here zhivu.2.Now I am free to speak to you in Russian and do not mind. "Etching "is not quite the word, but in Ukraine it was meant to be, as you say," the kitchen. "Make it the second state, means to destroy, to cut down on the vine that same state, for which the struggle was waged for centuries, and for which he died the best sons of Rus-Ukraine.Want to speak Russian well-say, only in Ukraine should be only Ukrainian and point.
Well, do not tell - the Baltic States and the Soviet Union lived better than any other in the Union (and, precisely because of their mentality, above all!), And now lives very well, I've been there twice, and for a long time. Once complained to me about the Baltic states of "bad" life. I immediately reminded them that there is life, and worse (in Ukraine, for example), to which they told me that this is not an indicator, it is necessary to look at the rich countries (in Germany, for example.). And for three months, I saw only one drunk-Estonians (out of hundreds of others) 
A bit of history ... which confirms my words about the involvement of the Russian people for the long-suffering city of Lviv - "Known since the Middle Ages is a narrow street in the historical center of Lviv, connecting the area to the Market Street Basement. Despite the fact that, because of its size in the street can not to miss two trams, Russian serves as an important transport artery. The architecture combines street renaissance, baroque, classicism and secession "
Do not get fooled by the machinations of the trolls and all science :) The truth is somewhere in the middle of the views of sensible people. Good luck to you! 
..After this "share" in the ghetto officially had about 86,000 evreev.8 July 1942 7,000 Jews were deported to the camp Janowski. For the month of August were sent to Belzec 50 000.By September 1942, the ghetto was about 65,000 Jews, of whom about 15,000 were "illegals." Some Jews hiding in the sewers of the city, where they were helped Lviv Poles and Ukrainians.In November 5000 the Jews were sent to concentration camp Janowski and Belzec.
Comrade, you're talking about Lenin and Stalin Yosku .. they forgot it all together in one pot))
Bandera your fight (tried) against the Polish invaders, but cooperated with the German ... and the Germans killed far more Ukrainians than Poles ... and you argue chromosomal-mind can not not come out ... so sho Wali in Polish shed, where they lived your ancestors, slaves ...
Fecal march in Bandera's birthday! УХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХАХ
In early July 1941, Stepan Bandera with Yaroslav Stetsko and with his associates were sent to Berlin in order Abwehr - 2 to Colonel Erwin Stolz. It required the leadership of Nazi Germany to abandon the Act "Revival of Ukrainian state" of 30 June 1941, at that Bandera agreed and urged "the Ukrainian people everywhere to help break the German army to Moscow and Bolshevism."
Dear________,In reading your post I realized you do not have logical thinking! You were once in Galicia? that writing is a must to visit us to talk to people who lived through the Stalinist terror and you been listening putinvizora tabachnikvizora well and putinvizora poiteresuytes idea nationalists in Bandera was deputy Rebet Jew and he was against the rule of one nation and Bandera agreed to this because in the UPA were many nationalities and Jews also were doctors and this fact is what happens to those in Syria 
I do not care. Well this is the Internet, there is always someone who is not right :)
BTW - Katsap!always wanted to ask, but from what dick, Bender was killed after the war in the territory of another country's intelligence agency?Is that the bandits fled the country catches intelligence agency?mine caught Toko perebezhikov military - and Bender never fiction Soviet military or political enemies of the regime. Trotsky naprimer.nahuya caught him, if he did not rob myrnoe population?
He has already canceled all Bandera-Polish citizen ...
And why would Russia pulls Ukraine in its Customs Union in exchange for the "cheap gas." Why Russia is not beneficial integration of Ukraine into the EU and NATO? Russia has plans for a revival or correct to say build a new Russian empire in the post-Soviet space where the center would be making would be in Moscow.
you live in a strange world of someone's delusional fantasies.Someone good for you to nafantaziroval that Russia is suddenly showed its bad side ... but in fact nothing more nor worse nor better than other countries .. Holodomor you guys orange with Anglo feed fed, and you're happy and they slurp soup:-D Gas is more expensive? A Neher trying to steal the gas, but still trying to get into NATO ...
And I do not need to be in Galicia. Did you think that the terror was only you, it was all over the Union. I looked and did synopsis of the magazine about repression in the 30th, and I can say with certainty what were the number of people killed by the NKVD. I also have something to hait owls. power, so the more the Germans.If so vdumatsya, the Bandera could think in advance about what to fight and even more so to develop national. movement is meaningless because the wheel could crush Stalin and such an organization. 
Bandera - scum, which must be pressed! And his followers! 
I mean, that you have, any attempt to recognize at least the official status of the language in which the whole country is talking, and most of his family thinks causing violent protests and massacre in the parliament and in the streets - it does, but to the Western Ukrainian chauvinism not call , we're not going to declare Russian Russian-speaking Ukrainians. Yes, the Russian has always been, is and will be, to some extent chauvinists, but not without chauvinism and a strong state.
hohlenki nakolyakoyte to move and then get bored waiting for the Little Russians, and if normal then Gogol!
Technically drank the scum. In fact able to work!
Cho is a hohi-ebanashki with nominal GDP / brow lower than in the Congo act on my Outback at home? Ohueli chtoli completely? All whores prepare ago in Africa. People you ushlepkov had suffered. We are dostizheniya Velyki and terrible are not needed.
That are you and how hundreds of thousands of Russian people razsrelyanyh zamordovanyh NKVD camps as well? or are they too were the Nazis?
GLORY UPA I. SS GALICHINІ ІSTINNIM fighters against Nazism I. KOMUNNІZMU
and we do not believe it, not only were the grandparents, but also great-great-great .. we never fell from the moon 
Why Jews enemies Ukrainians? What they have done to you personally that you can justify the concentration camp and the Bandera-Khmelnitsky massacre the Jews? Without them, there was no trade, no vodka for your thugs.
Firstly you need to ask perhyh.komu moron!Secondly you have no credit, because you're sitting in a Tbilisi broken point and against Russia dick code go to war-spirit is not enough.
- For this they will need you. for this they zabreyut you and your child to the army prikryvaya this talk about patriotism. begin to do so in all countries with your diapers.  And if someone is in the country zanimayaetsya incitement against neighbors this is also done for this purpose.
Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the nation!
Today ... you something long in the pub protorchala ... (Tell your stories about shlyuhevicha, children turn away ...Otmazy type - "harmful to know" - very obossatochnye ...)
given the fact that some Bandera tormentor cats, never was a Ukrainian, this is ridiculous pathos
Bender stinking fascist!
Lenin's corpse ... propose to move to the city to you, it gave you now call himself a Ukrainian, not Little Russia ...) Talk bad about the dead is impossible, but it does not take the land itself, can take away, because you love to collect the enemies of Russia (whether shlyuhevich, Bandera, Chikatilo, Dudayev), and why did Lenin not fetch?
GLORY GLORY UKRAЇNІGEROYAM
Ha, Mlechin laugh: "Bandera no complaints about the Germans killed the brothers did not show." Ie by Mlechin goes that when Bandera was in Sachsenhausen, he called and said that at Auschwitz torment his two brothers, and now they want him posutrudnichat, so what? Kremlin propaganda terribly dull.
War has always been a business, any military actions bring huge profits, any war is the other side of coin, you do not want to have ... Hitler destroyed all who in his opinion nothing but military pristupleniya all participants of any war is, as well as to deny that every hands are clean - some are in the mud at other levels ... 
Not all Western Ukrainians are dolbaeb!many families have suffered ... I have a grandmother with those places, she said that Bandera traitor .. he destroyed his people ...
I hate not literate. arrogant. Nothing in my life has made people., who are still trying to talk about something. looking at the avatar immediately determine what kind of person.
While you are right from Russia will Siberia, U.S. dismiss all its staff and apologize to the Indians. What are you talking about that nonsense.
Wali himself aspiring fascist-Nazi asshole washed Bandera
Faecal procession
Bandera - COWARD AND PRIDATEL. I saw a huge, vooruzhonnuyu fashiskuyu army and decided that they would win and just as the Germans came up with the idea natsialisticheskuyu, that Terminated their atrocities, he hoped that the Germans after winning him a little autonomy to stand out and it is they will be six. NU horseradish Nitsche, failed. The coward against innocent Ukrainians fought. I hope he's in hell sunbathe. And his followers are already in NATO mouth look.
where the second part
Mutilated neskolkomi dollars tobacconist for any mode because of their dishonesty and tricks would not be sitting in a certain concentration camp .... Like he usually went to the policemen. Essentially small and cheap bubble samagona - this is what is the price of a nonentity at $ 10 ....
Zeke high end and forgot to raise his hand)))
Banderlogovsky shame ...
How I wish Ukrainians, if they have a criminal Bandera Hero of Ukraine. People who change their mind and think it is necessary that he was a hero?? 
Pathetic Ukrainians))) All they want to self-identified after centuries of humiliation and gnobleniya their people. Good luck to you, neighbors)))) 
you you you bastard rosiyskoy vyblyadki mongolotarskie
Pizdezh Stashynsky the conviction that he had acted in the back was a club in front of the Kremlin and the Kremlin obeschenaya carrot
yes motherfuckers, Crimea and return sevostopol, uebki fucking 
Do not be ashamed, and soon we will be sure to check out the Vlasov matter of time!
Nationalism, dead-end man!
She did not guess .. Here in the West as people brain washed. that will be difficult to recover
No need to wash or whose blood. Be a man. Normal Russian person.
ASSHOLE! That is Vid you shit stinks! Scho chitaєsh minute, then de Beres dіdko you znaє. Dalі stinks, ekskremnet. 
... And the way he "solicits" to men in the form <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(1*60+48);return false;'> 1:48 < / a> - is not that benderast? ...)
Sudoplatov they do not
A dream come true not only of Bandera and the Anglo-Saxons, too, if you have not noticed. Rusyns already consider themselves Ukrainians (as nationality), and the Anglo-Saxons - even split off part of a once great Russia, ie given "independence", well this is the good old days - divide pitting and conquer 
Sidor Kovpak Artemyevitch hero's who! A Bandera German flunky.
In general, true friends are known precisely in difficult times. Then when you have all rasprekrasno - next to you much anyone.Those who are willing to be close to you and love you, only when he has some sort of a benefit - is not no friend and brother. A consumer. You have to take advantage of Greco-Roman Catholicism - easily change the faith. Tomorrow will be advantageous to convert to Islam - become Muslims.
What an embarrassment! Fucking fascist! Few of them all destroyed! Survived to this day, and the fruit of the same moral monsters! History is not correct! Reasonable part of Ukraine will not forget the truth! Our veterans do not have fought for it!
In Gogol: every Muscovite doplyvet to the Moscow River, because sober enough.
not just your ass EBALSYA, 'cause you're a complete EAST fag!!
Una and packing shit bricks))
PS3. Over the next few years, this non-kosher behavior podzaebalo all so that the remains were benderovtsev finally drank. Even those ZALESSKAYA Ebony, where they were hiding.
Always knew zapadentsy whores selling, but that so suck at all! There is nothing to day." Shame on you vile scum banderovskaya 
Half-truths and sometimes outright lies! The attempt to discredit the OUN-B. Initially out of step A. Miller and S.Bandery led to a split into two factions OUN - "Melnyk". who collaborated with the Germans and Hitler complained that "Bandera" kill them (this is mentioned briefly in the film) and Bandera, who fought hard against the Germans on the land and not just memory, but with the arrival of the SA against the restoration of Soviet power in the first turn against the actions of the NKVD-MGB
Crimea - Ukrainian Orthodox land, and Galicia, Austria-Hungary.And what do you want from Ukraine.
... And Terezin concentration camp Talergof there? ...Russian people was difficult to betray their faith, and call themselves "Ukrainians", but - this is the bitter truth of the past century, which is the joy of the enemies of the Russian people was accomplished ... (the only joy that not all betrayed the Ukraine) and now you are ready to justify Besides betrayal invent different funny version of the origin, there is no evidence that ...)
Uh-huh. Bandera lead the herd. For slaughter. To the light behind him. Catch up with the 3rd Reich. Znіmayte nadalі svoї russofobskі fіlmi. Funnier Hollywood has obtained
Many words and meaning zero, I'm afraid you're schizophrenic or fat troll.
Cool ... and you're there a movie about shlyuhevicha shot ...) Actor really picked up too sugary, shnobel in fact was obviously a heavy ... And those moments where the gang shooting at the Germans me smile))) ...Well, Judas, now tell his tale of the historian Victor Brehunenko of the holy martyrs of the forest gang nightingales ...
Understandable. Is Russian extermination of Jews?
oh yes Vlasov, a fighter for independence of the Russian people hung up, it's necessary to do this to a hero!
Bandera - the enemy of Ukraine, Russia and Slavic countries.In the past, some Ruthenians of Galicia as a result of mutational processes, efforts Vatican, Austria-Hungary, Poland, Germany, have been turned into "Ukrainian" nationalists USS "ususy" and the Greek Catholics, that is no longer the Ruthenians and Slavs at the genetic level. Contemporary Galician nationalists have no reason to consider Ukraine as their country, as they joined in Ukraine as a result of the Reunion, which carried out the IV Stalin in 1939 
UKRAЇNІ GLORY!NATSІЇ GLORY!
teach history but not in textbooks and on Scaliger
Well, yes .... how is it that what Ukrainians, have found their hero :))) 
look disgusting ..... Judeo Poles won their mind .....
True.And every day he ate for breakfast paired human livers, and on his head he grew horns like the devil (in all its visible photo retouching).Homework is done, you sit on the internet?
You bird language, and even non-existent country :) monitor Wipe off saliva, pidorok separatist.
Russia strongly hindered the independence of Ukraine for centuries. And it continues to do so.
Dlmenya Moskal is the one who hate us RUSYCHEY turned, I predumaliu rodstviniki in Russia and the one who thinks we chyuzhimi then those tatarva WE HAVE BEEN AND WILL RUSSIAN and I respect but do not like Moskal ....!!
You are wrong. Germans rostrelyali bunch of Luda OUN and UPA sings fought with the Germans. And the Bandera from 1941 to 1944 was in German konslagere. 
Where the characters is on the video? None saw.
rar
that's interesting - you call me exactly as I am called Jews on the website of the newspaper tomorrow .. can not say why? - I know the answer .. not to strain his dumalku 
Bandera CAG Be a hero for his current Bandera) And for Ukrainians he was a traitor and a fascist.Yushchenko and Bander to count for awarding what that hero vyblyadku.
hey you Gastarbeiter from Ukraine if you do not like Russian, what are you all Prete to Moscow to work? Difficult at paradise built on zapadenschine? He is the same, just that you want to lazy to go hump a miracle, and make yourself out of the white and fluffy .... what you did at home for his people? Only demagoguery and plant where only see the word connected with Ukraine! 
you wrote to me himself that your folder name Moshe. zhidyara!
eva Walid and Alexander Nomerkov - two full-time troll FSB found in one of the mental hospitals in Russia.
Putin selectively with boritsya!
Jewish-Ukrainian, sebal here scum Russophobe. We also de jure and de facto, all perfectly in the country, as opposed to collective-rural outskirts, where they live half-civilized barbarians, and state control imbitsily who decide everything with his fists and make the official language spoken only retarded dibloydy no education Crazy and farmers in the west of the country. Russia compared to Okrainskoy garbage - a paradise on earth, and an island of stability, harmony and peace.
You describe the impact of their lift from the knees to the nations, when I talked about the fruits to Germany.Again, you're with your zapadofobiyami.You would like to see Germany under podlegla Russia?)))
So it Moskal.Well, you drive, you are the proud Chechen every day on her knees pose.And you put.
Yes, you're still the traharya in words))) .... what do you all YouTube zasrat his comments? you probably paying for you to leave here comments false and offensive against Russian.
To fuck, you're stupid: (sounds like you have no brain contents of the gray matter, and a mixture of vodka and vodka. You fuck our Jewish oligarchs, while you are there to masturbate on portraits of Stepan Bandera, we fuck your land, steal your bowels, humiliate your nation, exporting your women prostitutes as slaves sold in different countries. The harsh reality, man)))) accelerates your daily occupation. 
Bandera no Ukrainian and Hungarian. So from what dick he gave Ukraine? he stupidly sold Addiction to murder. Normal Maniac Butcher. NATO skewer you satanistkuyu perverted propaganda and cattle hawala, thank God fools little else.
Hussein's trial for war, in Yugoslavia generals on trial for war - was tried for ethnic cleansing!benderovtsy - not implemented a policy of ethnic cleansing. benderovtsev themselves in the ranks of war as Jews and other nationalities. they destroy the enemies of the people (well, they are even from the point of view of those who were for power OCCUPIERS - Poland / gernmaniya / USSR) so with cocks benderovtsev priplitat natsistam.soyuzniki to the war - it was and is vsegda.vy finally fuck are differentiating between allies and coalition ?
Well .... as Chmyr, I'm sure you tell them in the eye observatory say so ... (... right on the spot will give specific heroic act gang benderastov to be admired the world ....Do not bring, you'll find yourself Chmyr fact that you called respectable people you do not even know ....
Well, you also believe that the butcher can be a hero, what are you not being a zombie?OUNovtsy cut all the Poles and Jews, and Russian, and of their own who was a communist, helped them.How much of his own intellectual cut because they were looking for a dialogue with the Poles.
Of course, I did not see you ... but ..Ok, as you say)) 
spun ssuka Bender without budueschego and past!
Upa-bondsmen Hitler, URA-URA-URA!!
Yes, your hatred of the Russian language is great. Leaders Jews, all Jews, and possibly liquid Bandera. A Bandera became the same as for many fanatics of Stalin, Hitler, etc., in general character from the image. Only one wish, that has been put forward as an idea, others can all twist and start at the same idea to create completely planned actions. 
Jora, Ukrainians Ukrainians did not kill, do not be an idiot) Ukrainians killed the Bolsheviks and the Nazis and their collaborators.
This is not the kind of a division that was on sopatke from our grandfathers?
them were criminals, but why Ukrainians can not do the same in respect of Bandera and Shukhevych?
Only now, unlike you, Vlasov for us as traitors, who does not mind. same bastards as Bandera, wood brothers, Chetniks, Ustashi and other Nazi scum. 
Well, okay, I really blind, just do not see that in the last 20 years, Ukraine has become better off in any country of the former USSR.
Rosiya fought for the Germans more than 2 milion, everyone is silent
one has a small brain? correctly - a racist!
Damn those who distribute any lie against nationalists that ye!!!!! burn in hell stupid creature!
KCSA eldest person disgrace and the whole country, in terms of politics ...... Arnie second, damn .........
You do ohueli! I never said anything about hate Galicians!
means in reality is the opposite you're yet still take in mouth
Bandera hey do not bother you that your nationalist views already look askance towards brotherly Russia, not in the direction of the first secretory Committee. one thing is clear-this is when your civilized concepts, kama is very beneficial
dodam even Koch asked for help (20,000 soldiers) against the UPA. where then the logic of this film?
Glory to Stalin!
By the way, what you like fighters "for justice" were silent when, for example, the scoop in my native Kiev was more than 80% of Russian schools in the vast majority of ethnic Ukrainians in the city? Then all the inhabitants were forced to shovel srussky teach language (no choice), assimilation is in full swing, people were deprived of their language, their culture and roots. Why do not we do not act now, the same methods? 
You dumb and ssyklivy Ukrainophobes. Die creature.
Russia without all of you will be enslaved blacks females boots clean
It was the usual ukraintsychto you want to hear?I said that to the Volyn massacre was not?
Well, you do zapizdelsya! Just what you told me about the pains of love and tolerance, and has been "The Ukrainian people will always hate you!" Not a lot if you take on yourself, hypocrite? And what the hell are you such GALITSAEV equate to the Ukrainian people?
Bitch it, the country, and so divided, yet adds heat ...
I was in the army so we hated officers zapadentsev "Bandera" they revealed their identity, I saw what they were scum, not people
yes no uncles takuzh us little))) just many long understood INTO kagda otve4aesh gibberish trol oplaivoemogo it with 10 of their What are the tank empties stool, no4 svoroga zakon4ilas and Slavs wake up Babe I made, and it will become evroaziyky sayuz begin to live as human beings and our children will live in a normal country and not a Babe obscurantism :)))
fuck this one genetic garbage, calling themselves ukrami still seeks to Europe? These opolyachennye Khazar geeks call themselves Slavs? what a bitch drunk Austro-Hungarian, and in what a pigsty invented these imbitsilov our Russian head? these Guariglia even understand what faith is hell! they have no history or culture. fuck fuck with them throw fuck ceremony dozen hydrogen bombs at the gathering of these genetic insects, and the rest of the crap they give zilch. Glory of the Great Russia!
Hey, bitch, it's the owners cover one's tracks, cleaned the bloody asshole. Losses in World War II, German troops from Bandera had according to the German archives. Hey, suchara, litter - your work Khatyn. Guard concentration camps - so that no item. DED, suchara
Yes you are right. I think that we (the Ukrainians) and scho long will sobachetsa with each other on this subject.
And who gave you the right to a foreign land to climb with their orders and miserable like you? Russian do not like? And for that to love you if you just do what you like rednecks justifies itself and syno otseubiystve pritenduesh and more that you would have good people in your house door opened.Heil Hitler!
When Bandera in Lviv killed several thousand Jews where they were (children, old people, women), it is a heroic act? 
, Kievan Rus stay in Ukraine
It is not so! Bandera - a person, he did not attack with a weapon and do not go, he defended the country and their land. He's a hero! He was truly a leader and a charismatic personality. He was not a nationalist in a direct and blunt sense of the word because in the army of the UPA (the army) were Russian, but the Russian who believed their country Ukraine.
UKRAЇNІ GLORY! HEROES OF GLORY!Sovєtskaya power-satanic power fsbeshnaya Tale-єyo continued. Understand єto, samie Orthodox. And God help you!
The main thing to do, and the methods of dealing thirty.
GLORY UKRAЇNІ!! HEROES OF GLORY!! GLORY PATRІOTAM!!! GLORY NATSІЇ!!
Pu in Russia have most objective.Ordinary people go to rallies opozitsii said that don `t know who should be put in its place, and the people take to the pro-government rallies knew exactly what it was purchased Pu.In such circumstances, it is clear that Putin will be the majority, because the change frankly hard power on dick knows that - sane people have no desire.Here would be a opozitsii single candidate can be at Pu and there would be 64%. Shorter Pu last person who needed a fraud :)
Now I understand ... why are you so deaf ...) And I see you're ready hawala Brehunenko historians not to be disappointed ...)
Thank God it is not everlasting "Shokan" as you ragul.Slav he bleat from Gypsy mothers and fathers-Jewess.
Dogs dog's death, such as Bandera necessary to press as a child!
drasti dad vibrali all zhdom
Need a change of government, as we are not left with nothing. Now there is a war to destroy the Ukrainian nation.For Soviet civilization!
The guy with the numbers you have the disorder. ROA does not exceed the number of 100-120tys chel.v the end of the war. And Russian divisions that make up parts of the SS, was more-Russian № 1, № 2 Russian, ROA, RONA, RNNA. What would you have had an idea in 11 Manstein's army (which he drove, and then break, three of our army in the Crimea -44,46,51 Army) was about 300tys.chel, the number of members of the SS in 1941-45gg. was little more than 1mln.chel. Himmler was not allowed to make connections of a troop numbers.
Well, what you wrote all this?
Kak otvet etoj mrazi smotrite: Who came to power in 1917 TRAGEDY OF UKRAINE AND ROSSIITayny USSR 1917 Israel Gelfand. Parvus fULL VERSLenin all pravdaRevolyutsiya1917goda or special operation 
Bandera despicable separatist will please even more vile Ukrainian nationalists!Russian <wbr>-ue, Ukrainians (such as only Russian separatism of the brain), Belarusians, one Slavic people!We have to live with respect for each other and suppressing separatism natsizm.a because of them (and septic NAC) may appear quite absurd morons skandiniruschie'' Urals for Urals, Perm to Perm'' , and other idiots
Yes, easily! You have in the Ukraine in the churches do not dance hip-hop on the altar as we do! You do not even have a mausoleum where you could walk around and smell the stench of corpses! Yes, and your girls can not suck three members simultaneously.For example I can fit into my mug and even four or five at the same time! Then the same! You never razed with us and do not try to argue.If you want we can argue.I'm in my 40-plus hour sucked in about 30 meters of the Greater Caucasus member))).And that desire is not the same that was. 
about Chechnya. National composition of the Chechen-Ingush Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic in 1989 Chechens 734.5 (57.8%) Russian 293.8 (23.1%), Ingush 163.8 (12.9%), Armenians 14.8 (1.2%) The national structure Chechnya, Ingushetia 2010 + Total / / / Chechens 1,225,316 73.3% 27,597 1.6% Russian Ingush 387,003 23.1% 30,115 1.8% others think the figures here speak for themselves.
why in Ukraine's national hero - Hungary?
Western Ukraine is living a historical memory, its stench poskіlki іstorіyu Memory "yatayut її їm Writers potrіbno not. Museums of Stepan Bandera, monuments to him and his cronies, the streets are named after members of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. Many consider Bandera a hero of the struggle for independence. The film tells about the true face of the leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists and about his career, those yak Tse vzhe 80 rokіv Hoche indicators Tse USSR abo Moskovska Іmperіya.
ha ha ha .. oh, it's me who babbles ... better not to answer - the soldiers would not hurt a child's live ..
That's why so hassled about it?) Fuck this redneck Let them look they want
And then what ounovtsy in the 92 th in Abkhazia forgotten? Why help the Georgians fight against Abkhazians? After all, the last for independence from Tbilisi fought, and your heroes they were killed. 
Specifically.
You have bad eyesight, quotes do not you see? ... Ahhh you do not know what they mean. Teach grammar, kid)))
Thank God, Adolf Hitler did not, apparently for a second term of presidency was going ....By the way he announced the decree in Lviv, understands that Kiev would look retarded ....What is left in the brain look like?
He's not evil says, especially if you are not on find kampromisa, Europe has long been said that Ukraine raspodetsya into 3 parts. 1. Crimean-Tatar Zapodniki to Polshe and East of Russia. Not because we do I want to become, on the contrary. Do not get fooled by soglosheniya Yushchenko with the U.S.. Where is he, and where you are! Be united, we will only happy for you. Peace be with you Ukrainians.
what you were taught in school = (Russian Empire was a colonial power had 2 large colonies of Alaska and Siberia, Alaska was sold to the United States .... output Siberia from the Russian Federation will oznochat unichnozheniya huge number of nations and nationalities, from the economic point is that there will be oznochat Awesome resource base, and the Russian Federation stretches from the resources. 
vvllaaddiikkable friend, I support you!
Shmarov, you have a Jewish name, EVA Walid, Why are you even open his yap its zhidovskoe))))))))))))) Will it razevat at fly, beheaded ass)))))) You will be examined first with Chechnya , if you are soon to bend cancer, like all your Muscovy!Putin and Medvedev are Jews, but about Zhirik I generally keep quiet.In short, are you going to dick.
ROA? Yes, what they are "heroes"? - Too motherfuckers!
FUCK YOU JUST CAN suck EAST MAKE THERE FOR YOUR SEPARATE STATE OF motherfuckers-Galychyna and a year really is cock sucking SO sit and pussy EAST REMEMBER WHO YOU GIRLS fuck and forages PRASTITUTKI of the lions and grandfathers were YOU SUCH GETS fagot 
"I am Ukrainian. I'm a real Ukrainian, and not a creature zapadenskaya. Bandera that you do not like my background? ... Hahaha!! Then bring down the channel to some pendos! "scho minute TAKE Katsap in writing to your kanalі?so do not smoke do not smoke ... ty ... kanabіs at you so i mіzkіv not Got ...
And you would, in the hara entrenching shovel ebnut for such a "Hero." Rare you gidrotsefal, egor LOLO. Vlasov fought for his ass.<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D>­ <U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­<U+262D><wbr>&shy;<U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D><U+262D>­
What is happening in Ukraine, then in Russia for a long time is just a smile. Ranging from fights in parliament who do not stop for 12 years before the statements such as "Russian - not Slavs" or "Ukrainians very first sentient being in the universe." For us, the news from Ukraine as a Comedy Club to see.
Different people and not once. Vaughn, in Bandera ask - and then confirm his teeth.
cheers
Cut the eggs themselves, your land for you, zaroysya in and not blather, and how to live in Ukraine, it is not your business.
hey guys, you sho? what the hell he was a hero, I am Ukrainian, but these dogs as he is ready to cut, it helps to destroy the Ukrainian fascists, Awake traitor hero zdelano
what do you swear it shows your culture ..... their kill selectively, traitors .... those who became an accomplice komunyakami .. lenin and Stalin killed real heroes. or at least to the camps ...
How is the worst enemy of the Soviet Union and later Russia, a Polish-born Brzezinski has repeatedly said that, and I quote his words: Ukraine with Russia is an empire without Ukraine Russia is the province and no more.And all the events related to this point that the Pole was right.Only about a failed state wipe their feet and proof of this boycott to visit Ukraine in UEFA Cup -2012 all heads of Europe.You dropped through the floor.
Nehuy was flattery to the city and provoke.Veterans have long been dead (themselves fucking count - 72 years have passed since the beginning of the war) and those hit hard grandmother who currently ponaveshivali medals on his chest - the same veteranshi as I'm with you.Ivan for the attack - dick in the asshole and pussy for Mary - a red star!My grandfather himself was in the UPA, and much porasskazyvat saw with my own eyes.It is pointless to write about, but after his stories - I am ready to cut and kill Muscovites.
So while you are your shit smelly, only Mauger sidey garbage and say who do not know!Stalin smelly killer, but I'm not yelling about it in all directions!
your fucking komenty not interesting. Seen in Moskvabade ul-Fitr celebrated? 9-Tom in your ass just. So go celebrate their Eid al-Fitr and teach Chinese. Useful.
that I do not believe them. No wonder that these hohov psheki Katsap called. Should be on the goats were very similar habits. And we have so completely crest they call. Stuck at Petrukha during nemchuru dominance. Heuchler translated "hypocrite" (sounds like "hoyhle" and also tune in Dutch). So you stupid ass knows how to pshekii, and in the West))) the Ukrainians of Russia (from the south-western edge of our common country with them) you despise and crest they call. So believe - do not respect yourself)))
How deported to Siberia, I do not know. I just know that many of you have come from eastern Ukraine - teachers, doctors, engineers, agricultural workers, educated and skilled people who were to take your under-developed in the field of Polish authorities. Are your characters just such people and destroyed.
Well, I forgot to add there the word "historic". Well, I think that you, a nationalist, and so I understood perfectly. This is a first, and secondly - the Scythians, as well as their related tribes: Sarmatians, Sakas, Alans and others lived on the territory of the Danube as far as Siberia and is one of the ancestors not only Ukrainians, but also of all the Slavic peoples, Finnish- Ugric, Baltic and some other ethnic groups to a greater or lesser degree. Third Cossacks podsilu Ekaterina2 to existing Cossacks. Teach history!
Culkin - is one root means - coming savior on a white horse, there is another option - one of the greatest battles in history took place on the river Kalka and Russian princes were given that name heroes of the battle whose fame eclipsed acts LORD, if thou be enlightened reading Vedic work - Kalki Avatar - the name of God who will come soon to make final judgment, and I do not recommend this because you blaspheme God punishes all who are with him in a quarrel-die
Mlechin engaged in distortion of facts and not telling where it is not profitable. There's not just saw the shot. Excavated burials (seen on the set), where hundreds of people saw the mutilated corpses. After such a spectacle as the judge of those who have been brought to a state of brutality and insanity?
And you all love right :) And what do you mean by the word all :)
dead bitch and all these fucking Ukrainians will follow him
So you're in the good do not understand! That OTEBIS! (And then zaebis).
Jews have to move into the ghetto to 15 December 1941. By the beginning of 1942 in the ghetto there were more than 100 000 Jews. Jewish police had up to 500 people and provide the internal law and order in the Jewish ghetto, participated in the raids, carried out convoy resettlement and deportation of Jews to the camps, provided the following orders of the occupation authorities, etc. 
filmets blinded unprofessional --- gebeshnuyu this agitation can vparit Uninformed plebs in Russia - the target audience is probably there --- Ukrainian such dezuhu not shavaet --- although, we gebeshnyh greedy too short
komunyakami many people had broken that compared with Bandera, angels
No problem, I told him tomorrow buzz you :) Putin raised the price of gas because that Tymoshenko and her lads started steal gas that flows to the evropu.kstati policy knows no brotherhood :)
Vitaly Do not you think that a character such as Bandera is no longer relevant, and most importantly very doubtful. than can be justified by a man who strongly contributed to world order, where your nation likened to monkeys.
Fortunately, I live and communicate in a completely different environment, and drug addicts among my friends there, I see them mostly on TV. I, too, for tolerance. And in fairness it should be noted that almost the first time in response to my post I have not called them any bad words or Reigning movoyu or in Russian. So, it can not mate and personal injury talk and even argue. From what I congratulate you and myself. Good luck in your mineral matters, and I, too, luck does not hurt)
Love spasaetZa all should pray for Pol Pot, and for Himmler, and for that all have sinned LeninaPotomu
but these bitches Bandera under whom not only progibalis.pochitay since Mazepa a traitor still suck it uamerisosov then evrososov.
ha ha ha ... fascist. citizen of Austro-Hungary was awarded ... and sho .. Taras Shevchenko of Ukraine is not a hero ... wow .. there are stupid slaves
Bandera - a fascist and a traitor.
but as communists rosiyane pitied children, elderly
He could not unite the western and eastern Ukraine since Eastern Ukraine was under Russian rule. 
"Western Ukrainians have been prostitutes, and they remain hicks"-that is, all Western Ukrainians - Bandera?They like their shot? You about Bandera, something about all Ukrainians .. What a difference just do Western or Eastern, they are all Ukrainians? 
Russian so proud of their culture considered themselves the smartest and despising other cultures and customs.But the whole of Russian culture makes foreigners Pushkin Negro, Lermontov, Tatar, Ukrainian, Lomonosov, Catherine the Great, German, etc. Where will you find a purely Russian scientist or a poet or a military leader? And objects of worship among Russian foreigners.
yes yes konechnoUPA the Germans did not voevalitolko then why hide it from the Germans?
He was Vsev lish a pawn in the hands of the Nazis, no more no less
Suck dick, fag!Soon you expect loud Caucasian expansion!Fuck all of you in the mouth Ukrainian Shawky! You are with us, that under us! <U+FDF2> <U+0627> <U+0643> <U+0628> <U+0631> - Allah Akbar!
With the history you have trouble. Which tries Peter I?
You say that you're a clown fancy dress - I did, with no pictures, I believe svoєmu "brother" Moskal word for it.)) Che is not clear? 
Che want no one can call you
So it's about the evil troll!!
Just do not primitive old tired cliches about the multinational country. We are clearly not Raska. In Ukraine, 98% occurring in Ukrainian and Russian, and not all the other nations of the 2%. In fact, the country's titular nation of over 80% + 17% Katsap, and the rest of the nation just for the background. In fact, we mononational katsapskim country with a minority. In the Odessa area Ukrainians make up two thirds of the population of the region, so everyone else should be arranged by us, and not vice versa. 
Moskovska porn.
used to mate with each other in the woods, and do not use fat as people. "People" is not you neobolschaytes vyblyadki sadomazohiskie, Nazi scum, besides sucking Germans and Romanians neumeet nothing. Bandera and not fiction when a Ukrainian, he was Hungarian as you baranoebom
Why go to Siberia from Russia?
Bandera whore mouth shut!!
= (I am often in Riga, and I like to look at this city (but watch) but of course much of the Baltic states regained after 45 years? Is later Kiev and Minsk? o.0Germaniya good country do not drink, I have not mastered all the beer or when ...And the funny thing is shaking his fists after the fight is better than to do everything to make it all the way ... apparently all Soviet foreign debt of the Russian Federation is going as a bonus turn-based strategy?
Their behavior you do hurt those who love you
UKRAЇNІ GLORY! VIVA UKRAINE!!!
About ... - look once more and his perverts - <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(0*60+53);return false;'> 0:53 < / a>
Watch the movie - Ukrainian nationalism. Unlearned lessons. 
Bandera and Shukhevych burn in hell and suck Hitler
hahlyaki svinozhidovskie!
by the way. Go fuck with your katsapskimi "rozmyshleniyami." They anyone except your fellow countrymen and zadrypantsev emigrantov who escaped from the "great Rushka" not interesting. write your edinomyshlenikov .... what ever ... there .... Katsap. I poher.
A sick kid specifically))) But I'm not a kid has impressed his schizophrenia, and grandmother in the background ..Face full of anger and hatred ... contorted with rage ...Only a grandmother with the same Dedkov could raise such a schizophrenic ... Accidents from their stupidity, the mentally ill, angry at everyone and everything little people ..How many of these in the Western Ukraine ...
so send me your suggestions and greetings pidarskie intima))) Go hohlusha Namibia to Angola first catch by nom. GDP / brow. And then to write to people loshara)))
Funny how these svidomye. The Soviet army was every four Ukrainian and you contrast them some political pitiful bunch kolabortsianistov broken at Brody in the down and feathers. Funny nationalists who boast knows what. I maloros and I do not feel ashamed for them, because they are not proud of my people. Kovpak Saburov Fedorov, and hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian partisans. Millions of Red Army soldiers and laborers behind. My Neighbors glorious mining divisions. The real heroes of Ukraine.
Muscovites are not Slavs.The entire capital of the Rostov people.Suzhdal capital people to measure.Moore Capital nation Murom.Capital city of Ryazan Erzya.mAAskva people, capital Moksel people.Where's the Slavs?
Which then you ethnography and history thoroughly politicized!So you then too dominant a Polish-Slavic, Finno-Ugric ethnic <wbr>-s!) Poles and Hungarians, which you submitted to 700 years.Finnougory assmilirovali with Russian Slavs, adopting the culture and erosion in the Russian media.
AHAHAHHAAmoskalyam specifically brains promiliavtor vіdeo-liquid
The count aktevistov! in the link above, or Solovki in Sochi and Odessa, not better to Solovki there still have a lot to build!
Belarus Ukraine Russia Brothers have always been and will be. A dolbaeb always enough WRITE ANY POEBOTU
Padlyuki, all under Tishka Hero .... lousy! 
Unfortunately, the Muscovites are neither Russian, nor even the Slavs ...By blood, they threaten Finns have betrayed their own language. They took another Russian-Ukrainian and extremely perverted it ...Hence the endless "Akane" this so-called "Russian" language. Their native language should be close to the Estonian. 
Haha! And I thought - legs ...!Suck pipisku, fume not pluck. banderofashistskoe shit xD 
Another anti-Ukrainian propaganda as "Secrets of the century: Stepan Bandera. Custom suicide. " Kremlin foreign patriots ochernivayut Goebbels and his executioners (like Zhukov and all smershevtsev) were proclaimed saints. It is better to remove a film about how the NKVD (MGB) disguised under the UPA and kill innocent people in the Soviet Ukraine in the late 40's and early 50's.
Russian Slavs among the Jews of the Semites, all people as people, and they are "chosen" :) Die kommunyatsky bastard, you can not see the Ukraine, and Belarus will send you as soon as the Chukchi run out of gas. So parashnik, learn Chinese :)
for what we do not answer. we wanted to do, then we will, and we nicho you do not, you're too stupid and small.Potsreoty Ukraine - give up our gas, kill yourself!
How much will I earn in the MMM-2011?More: moneyes.ru
Yes, for the policemen, Vlasov and the rest of shit
Vobschet Bender and overwhelmed by his own. as no hiding from their owners Ukrainian patriots and there it was punished
Russian ...... where there crudeness, rudeness, violence, deception, and even war.We are against the people do not fight tanks, planes, helicopters <wbr> -, and you had two wars against Chechen only for the fact that they wanted to live on their land on the.
stsuko such nonsense .......
May you all had died Nerds cocks
Listen, when you're in Russia last time was? In addition to Moscow, for example.
Pіvnik Ukrainy
Hmm, after reading the comments it becomes clear what kind of people are suffering the most extreme form of chauvinism, and who just wants to know and be proud of their history in the state.
After his arrest the fall of 1941 and up to December 1944, a prisoner of the Auschwitz concentration camp. As S.Bandera (15/10/1959), Lev Rebet was killed 12/10/1957 KGB agent B. Stashinskomu. Over the course of the operation followed Nikita Khrushchev.He was buried in the cemetery "Valdfridgof" (German Waldfriedhof) Myunhene.30 in October 2010 reburied in Lviv Lychakiv Cemetery. Pay tribute to the outstanding political, public and academics came first face of the city led by Mayor Andrew gardens.
Ale I nіkoli not feeling gasel s side of the Tatars of those Shcho Cream - tatarsky! you have not heard and I've heard. the story goes in a circle. Stories and there was a time when the Turkish Sultan dreamed of establishing his empire along the rivers Don-Volga. and the Crimea in the story played a role. of Deputies. EU deputies then you land surrender, or what?
You're a moron or what? Stalin and the Communists - the creators of your ebannoy Ukraine. Before the Communists, Lenin and Stalin came to power, where was your Ukraine? She was not there! And what was that? WAS RUSSIAN! One and Indivisible! Judeo-Bolsheviks her dismembered, blinded and pieces of Ukraine. That's how it was created and the ugly uebischnaya state called Outskirts.
pіzdozh
I feel sorry for you
I'm out of this swamp Russia, Ukraine (katsap. hohol0 got long. There are only servants of God and servants of Satan, and the third-ONO.A always best to study the history of the biblical text but not for the course are written in the modern Bible and correct the Yids friends.A recent history I study by correspondence, reports, and edicts, summary, although the data are dry but with the convolutions can put everything in its place
by the way these guys burned Khatyn in Belarus with all people / characters fucking / as the Germans say rest / and bring grief to his people assholes - especially bluntly ideological weapons / Bandera in this glorious clip of all time / easiest way to great estate, it is a blunt remove competitor with religion or nationalism!  
War-fighting. Co-workers told.
In his time with Germany coped really well and western Ukraine, as anything.
You know, none of its Volkswagen and other rubbish and not worth half of what he had done the Third Reich. 
Well, well, dreams are dreams. Do not do anything except his movoy nosites as with a written sack. 
what grits?you would go from here
Telekomentatora lies just vrazhaє ((
Toochka My view is that any military conflict is the greatest evil. Society chooses politicians so that they led their country to prosperity through peaceful means, but the reality is that politicians are ordinary people and getting their hands on a great power become narcissistic tyrants which have their own (as a measure of their depravity) the idea of ​​how to achieve good.That is the reality and it's sad.
Creatures such as Bandera need to kill a child, I'm sorry they did not break all the NKVD. Eternal memory NKVD officers died at the hands of thugs and traitors. Shame on those who put monuments fascist lackeys as Bandera.
about Khatyn should say a few words. Germans helped burn Khatyn not UPA (UPA no fighting on foreign soil), and 118 guard battalion, which was formed from the former soldiers of the Red Army!, Sided with the Germans. And the members of the Battalion were not Ukrainians .. Jora Vasyura example, even though he was born in Ukraine, but was an ethnic Jew ... That's the truth, it is actually, and you can shove your kommunpropagandu to his dupu.
HELLO Musorskogo Yanukovych
Want to be a patriot of Russia - create his own company and extort money from America. The software company has created and took money in American programmers.
And that showed true fascist face today Bandera ... 
Well done Ukrainians finally found his hero nagraduBelarus with you, 'brother
DEATH SS Division gAALITsIYa
That's because of the children make gaga haters of all Russian
you strange, though. not consider it necessary to communicate and respond. I actually just about it and wrote that in 40 minutes in Lviv, you made a far-reaching conclusions about the Galicians, Bandera and many drugom.i, of course, to find fault with nick opponent drag relatives to speak a mixture of Russian and Ukrainian words - it's level. what else to argue?
Bandera was not calling attack on Moscow or Warsaw! Bandera defended their homeland Why Oleksandr Nevsky could defend their land and S.Bandere it was banned? The answer is simple - Stepan Bandera wanted to live in their independent state and fighting for it. He - the hero and thus always remain in the memory of Western Ukraine, and then the whole of Ukraine!
The bottom line is that some people considered fraternal Russian people and were ready to fight with them against the Natsik were others who felt the first - moskalskimi henchmen, Russian - followers and slaves klyatyh Bolsheviks, Poles - pshekami, Jews - Yids, etc. on the rise. Of course, the desire to punish anal shot in the back of all the above. They were very close with foshystami those times, to give aid and assistance from fashev.
fought for Ukraine in Austria. complete nonsense!! zaprodants1
INTO our banderavtsam not tell them nothing not dokazhish. in the west they were told to detstva INTO Bandera geroy.napisali false story and they believe that the truth of nimi.shto Bandera then fought against the two giants of the Nazis and communists is ridiculous zvuchit.poka veterans are alive, they can tell the truth, but when it will be their nestanet much easier to distort history.
Ukraїnі glory!
It is very interesting, gentlemen, fellow Russians, why are you getting into conversations, things, etc., that we do not belong. Imperialists, leave the already poor Ukraine alone. For their country should look - srach Circle
Yes, you join a European Union and NATO, Russian general on dick, trust me, you rightly said Alain, you here for 20 years, no one remembers, it was only occasionally on TV that show your oblique and all :)
Nurse jerk your son! this time!I say, read the testimony of Erwin Stolz at Nuremberg, there you will find not a single word about Bandera! it is two!Education you are with me and not standing next to, stupid Galician Ukrainian, Ukrainian you fucking old as shit mammoth))) tried to make of you normal people, but keep going shit candy did not work and talk to you to explain that he ram ram! ! so FAP at Bandera and collect cigarette butts! it is three!
drasti dad vibrali all zhdom
... Who is this "you"? Do you think that his body did not want to give the First Republic, which admits that he your hero? Indeed, thanks to you Ilyich Steel Ukraine as a country today ...) Like the rest of the 14 republics that broke, thanks to the most "commies" who you are there Hayot ...)
What is wrong with nationalism is that each State to protect the national culture, its language, its local producer. Lukashenko example restricts imports of Ukrainian and Russian dairy products to protect domestic producers. This is economic nationalism.In addition 70% of airtime on TV and radio take Belarussian songs, do not expect to hear American pop music as in Russia or Ukraine.
pffff)) Just Petrosian! )
Pole Pole chi DAC PID mow)))
I want to. When and where?
full down premature baby (suffering shyzhofrenieyu)
so stupid, that as much funny 
pin! I saw the passport and talking to people :) from mista lviv and the neighborhood ... :) Europe wants to form another spade is not given, and now 8th grade and people vozi ... :)
What is useful in that meeting? Do I have such people in Ukraine?
yes in Abkhazia too otgrebli pizdyuley.
No, my dear, we are one nation. Our common homeland - Kievan Rus, let them perish vsі Ti, who namagaєtsya roz'єdinati us. people we are brothers. And no new riches story not overwrite for themselves, not invent new. Forever Galicia - a land of ancient rusichej and Kiev - the mother of Russian cities.
And you hospitable people. And you with the hospitality of the European Union together?
Donetsk court reversed the decree of President Yushchenko on awarding Stepan Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine.The decision states that the decree was issued with infringements, as Bandera was never a citizen of Ukraine. The court also decided to keep the state budget in favor of the lawyer who filed the suit, three hryvnia forty cents - as litigation costs.
Dovyebovaitis you try again to raise his hand to Soviet veterans.
1.-Jews about Jews that their own half-delirium and Russian shovinizm.2.Farion even partly right, unlike regional Khmyrov who said: "Parents have called normal child named" Tatiana ", and is available on their move" aunt some ".3.MMA-svobodovtsev this way does not give regional and communist vote one card raz.4 100,500.Chauvinist neither Russia nor Ukraine has never been.Explicit chauvinist, is Vladimir Putin.
Abassi schmuck
Though I Rusco, but consider Bandera a hero of Ukraine, he really wanted independence from Russia. But the report purely propaganda putinovskaya kgbeshnaya
Russian hysterics pigs pleasant 3
I think that Shukhevych was mentally disturbed, if you really saying that "the idea loves his wife and son." 
You Che is not with the cases that may be less likely to take tabletochki, see "Ready", but confused in case - this is the first sign of degradation and there is no place for "the confession of faith."
Comments are small but I would like to describe one zakonoproekt of freedom can know about the language.In short: all doctors should rozgovarivat in Ukrainian regardless of the language they speak in pain.And esle PATIENT DOCTOR DOES NOT UNDERSTAND THAT IT MUST for your money to hire a translator. + Ustraevymye All activities will be conducted only in Ukrainian.For failure to follow a fine (do not remember the exact number), but a lot of minimalok. How to call it? And that is they are not in power ...
Ukropeysky fascism it is the successor of the German in the literal and figurative sense. Vlasov is separate and we have, but we do not allow for power and right to do, unlike you. Pan Slavism and does not imply any proclamation of the titular nation. therefore, it is popular in all Slavic countries, not only in Russia.
Only in a cafe? Only in the cafe! I heard in Donetsk on a couple of times a day to the reproach that I speak Ukrainian. One wise guy in the bus even told me that he had occupied Ukraine Donbass :) in both! I did not want to offend, and water it down, I do not like (I have other more useful things.) Let's treat each other with tolerance, the only way we will achieve prosperity. Come to us, things are not as bad as you describe. 
spun ssuka Bender without budueschego and past!
And under the authority of the Soviet Union, where the capital of the Soviet Union? - In Moscow. Location manage internal and external policy of the USSR? ie from the Kremlin Russia. Hto you said that Ukraine and Russia - United Russia? Bogdan Khmelnitsky Pereyaslav Rada on October 11, 1653 gave Ukraine to Russia to protect it from Byzantium (Turkey).
We were a superpower, and we beat the first in the world to do nothing without us, and now we Ukraine-poor, hungry, addicted <wbr>-th power.That "fighters for nezalezhnist", without even knowing it, brought to a point where the ceiling is to be a waiter in Poland, well, in Italy, so we just do, the impossible dream
Write in Russian, ignorant schmuck. Secretly written.
and even add that my mother tatarin.
Bandera - eblansky terrorist
Bleesh you! You have nothing to say! And I'm talking about what I see. And in contrast to other methods for the analysis of what I see.! Look and see two different things. And think about what I saw and analyze)) This is not for average minds! So that Ivan does not bother to think it is not in your line. Its history is instructive to begin with.
Ukraїnі glory, glory to the Heroes!
yuschenok not know how podnasrat lastly, crest-like zapadentsev - all because neither sgim podnadkusayu.
Guys, be smarter.Well I wrote that Muscovites and shesterochki from Crimea and Donbas really think and believe that we need for Russia to be the choke.Here they think so!What we have to suck cocks and they Kiev to Moscow stinking change.They do not realize that this is not pravelno, so to speak, for them, this is the norm, and in order.Ebanfaly, even though the wall Bosko rasshibut obossutsya and boiling water, and what will change?Let the pussy, we learn how many stupid ass.
By the way Ukraine is not independent and is very dependent on YuSEy. You pay them for the life of your kids is not yours and they are even on the war in Afghanistan.
You should not fellow Ukrainians on GDP comes over. Insulting people. He is also a human agent, and as it tries to save himself and his family. How could it pulls the complete collapse of Russia.And to his credit.He dances well to the tune lezginka apple ..
Cool, that Natsik-zapadentsev the meaning of life is to hate Russian, promising that in Europe many: aunts - ass wipe elderly German women in hospitals, the peasants - fuyachit in construction, carry all Mr. but from point A to point B, and the on ...)A plant Electron Lviv, Lviv Bus Plant and also other production, created by Russian occupiers damned long rested in the Lord.What you rock at 22 Square and congratulate)) 
Yes you are there who were caught, then invent stories. Caucasians are all cops bought, you bought the whole country. Jews in government, Caucasian criminal groups control all small and medium businesses, the same pit stops, taxis are all owned Zaurbek, Aslambek, and where are you? Russian where are you? Cool question asked Tina Kandelaki. Yes, that's exactly nowhere vperde accurate. Your country has long been sold out, you are accustomed to drinking watered, and you havalnik open about his greatness, and here begins the ugly Russianisms. 
What, then, they did not fight against the Soviet army? Discard with the attack of ten to one, the unsuspecting person. If they love their people, why do it yourself killed. The words Shukhevych: let of 40 million Ukrainian people will be half - nothing terrible in that! This is a complete disregard their own people. And the bastard still a hero of Ukraine gave.
And your name is not Sasha Dorfman, very much like you are abominations?
Yeah everyone would understand that. and as Hillary bitch rubs her hands. Iraq, Libya, and FIHM all of us. us as morons pits and we are glad to try ....
"One Rosii" yyyy
Ukraine's population of 33 year was 25 million, how many people Stalin destroyed? 1000000? Not very funny on this nonsense that you write? Collectivization in memory reached only 18%. Year and a half had been evicted 250 thousand, of which 8% of Ukrainians, Jews and other Poles. Opened new hospitals, Ukrainian schools. So anyone out there who Ridicule?
Bandera forward
Russ was one, it is now much, and Ukraine can be divided? So Stepan legally divide and conquer?
I understand ... not very nice to get in the last century by Nazi ass ... ( I do not need to mow under Azis from Bulgaria, all so clear that the rot that you preach in Lviv, can support only one National Party, led by "true Ukrainians" and YkornymiBokami eBipetskimi Pharaoh ... (that hollow fragile brain Ukrainian Adolescent romantic history and a fantastic "hero" who heads a gang of forest transvestites, and somehow forget that he is not a Ukrainian (
In medieval documents of Kievan Rus as the ethnonym for Eastern Slavs - the ancestors of Ukrainians and Belarusians used the Russian word 'Rus', which has, in turn, according to one of the hypotheses of Scandinavian origin, for a single representative of the ethnic group - "Rusyn." For the first time it occurs in the Chronicle years under contract with the Greeks Oleg and Igor 911 945. In (copy) "The Tale of Igor's Campaign" also found a poetic word 'rusichi (rusitsi). "
Burn propaganda?! ohaha all go out and burn tomorrow zhgem it!! do not forget to bring their countries' constitutions, books containing religious foundations, history books, literature!! History is written by the winners!
Ha ... but the Ukrainian nation! much ashamed that I live with them in one country. Shame!
Stupid Russian chauvinists, probably will still exempt Russia from Russian. And, I am for what in the concentration camps to round up or kill the polls like a mad rabble bionepolnotsennyh bastards) 
not about you 
If Lviv do not know what to expect from the Muscovites, who completely disoriented their media.
We are not brothers Ukrainians! Pidorny corrupt people! No normal crest not know all the petty pidornye bastards. We RUSSIAN, fucked you and chocks, and to fuck still be wait! 
and the most vile, that such propoganda remove and set the present rulers of Russia! And this is the same man-hating Zionist leaders! to them we are just goyim. Who is intelligent and wants to know - read up on the RAF - are the real heroes with OUN that fought against evil zhidobolshevistskoy! Unfortunately, the non-Jewish Slavs, and Ukrainian, Russian and Belarus lost, which is why it was again raised the issue to divide, conquer and they will - the Jews! will mean more riots
not under the control of Russia, and under the rule of the Soviet Union!
You too. Well, at least you admit about
You ... movie "The tragedy of Galich" look? It's not about the Caucasus, and about a very different story!
Each "state" is the shit that proclaim "heroes." In Russia, it Vlasov, Krasnov and Denikin, etc., and in the Ukraine Bandera, Miller, etc. Moreover, the two countries are sitting in deep shit, delivering their women to brothels in Europe. In Switzerland, Austria, Sweden, Golladnii the economy is OK, and these characters - no scum. It's the economy. Mlechin - teleprostitutka and a liar. 
Let's look at what stories are you talking about Bender.You were taught at school to think of party patterns Makhno - skunk, Bender - traitor Petlyura - cattle, And for those who do not like tacos stories came black Volga and vanish into thin air. How can you say this if we do not make sure that Owned Benderovtsy, Makhno, Petliurists committed these crimes. You have been given information as meat hungry dogs and you do not even sniff the meat, and suddenly it was poisoned!
Must Bulo Svyatkovyy povisyty slit Muscovite that a Jew, for the glory of Bender. More ... pi pa think hard
But have not been to yet. And you're right, it really nafik and they do not, everything is understood in Russian, but the status of the language itself yuridechesky "regional" suggests such possibilities. Even here in Ukraine has become a Russian regional and now you can write in Russian every brew and receive at the appropriate language.
Vobschem svolochugi, traitors and cowards fuck.But if the Russian SS Division fought with the Red Army, so it can be understood, hated the Council of Deputies.And all these third-rate narodtsem (Ukrainians, Lithuanians, Estonians <wbr>-particles, etc.) were not able to understand the fallen on their heads happiness.Do not have time to destroy all unfortunately.
Prichet here Latin? ) If you mean the Latin language, of course. If you think "Latin" - is latynitsa, I read better than you do.Yeah potsivilizovanne than you. At least with the logic to make friends. And the culture of debate you would do well to learn a little.)
I totally agree with you that Ukraine is a colony of Russia, where the former Russian Bolsheviks STILL! Ukraine's right, recolor of the Communists in the oligarchs, etc. Ukraine is now living, how to live any colony, where all the capital pumped colonists to their homeland - in Moscow and Israel. That's when we, Ukrainians shall throw zhidokatsapsky occupation regime and squeeze all the occupants of the Ukraine, and become masters of their country - it is only then that any change.
Go masturbate to the Asian red zvezdachku chock: D 
Їbat yakі moskovitі pіzduni)
shame of Russia in your country vide.zapoganili sorts PUTIN
In a strange as the Romans did not climb. Russian should think of Russia, and not to look for enemies "Russian world" in the west of Ukraine, in history class, where there is the patriotic education of youth.Especially cool name and surname of the journalist, once seen - Russian :)
... For Russian heroes: Nevsky, Don, Pozharsky, Susanin, Ushakov, Suvorov, Kutozov, Zhukov and many others, not a Nazi-fascist scum!!
Not all Ukrainians think because these people, so do not generalize.To someone very profitable divide us and rule-Slavs.Russia, Ukraine, Bel <wbr>-orus is brotherly nations, only together we are strong!Bandera Nazi henchman!
On prostitutes often run and ask their nationality? All right. You are there in Russia, first decide the question with Caucasians who chpokayut your girls while you drink too much and eating vodyaru.
Thanks Armenian radio sho dipped Muscovites face in shit zhovtoblakytnikov :)
Tse all propoganda MOSKALІV GLORY UKRAІNІ TA BANDERІ SHUHEVІCHU
For Ukrainian nationalism is patriotism takzhe as for Russian or Chechen, etc. And do not confuse the people and impose it Nazism!
Russian watched the movie and said, "Love Ukrainian after this moronic? Zvynyayte, but with Russia somehow calmer. "Natsyki fellows! Keep it up! The more you have, the less russofobov)))
Zapadentsy suka__ not pozorte Ukraine!
I know their status. He's a classic paper on the Russian style))) There is only on paper. Russia is not Europe that would provide some sort of pathetic Nat menshine in 1000, the opportunity to really get the information in the state Establishm in their language and in fact even have schools that teach in their own language.
they do not hold up to fascists - just show-off (and kill only in the back)
"Shelter ancient nation Novodvorskaya intelligentsia".Kakly you all so stupid?
Mordovians you fuck, you, you still ate bacon, even dick with joy in his ass did not notice
You forgot to ask.
Excellent movie.Finally got the answer why eastern Ukraine always distrust even hostility, in the western Ukraine.
It pains me to watch ... Love for his homeland of Ukrainians, their sense of patriotism replaced praising this traitor. Be equated with anti-Russian to be a patriot. It would be better movement for restoration of plants of Ukraine would organize.
Banderlog can begin to kill only when it comes to the same power as the Third Reich .. they themselves are cowardly dogs
Well, again, you moron! Bandera collaborated with Hitler to the German defeat in the war!
Glory of the Hero
you do it)) on Zhirik something not to refer all his life as a neadekvashey, remained eternal presidential candidate, as well as Zyuganov:-D steamer is a historical fact and Zhirik nothing to do with, but the Bolsheviks were strong measures , but after a helluva lot of boat.And who did not have them? Can the English make a fuss with its colonies? Or read Natsik Germans suspected of philanthropy? Give a link to the video where the moment of truth from the lips of Zhirik sounded hefty curious :)
Good for you, though a little rough, honestly ale ....
it has a mind that is more profitable for them to shit by Russian and Ukrainians in Ukraine at this time robbing these fools in a quiet ..It's about your
Bob, what banderovets not see our values, it's not our problem. The fact that the monkey does not see anything in the man, a man not particularly care.
Sorry, but what does Moscow? I am a citizen of the same country as you. I was in Lviv, we left the group in Poland. Crossed the border in paragraph Shegyni. I can not write in Ukrainian as a home computer does not have a keyboard, in the office - yes. Breshut, sorry dog. And personally, your "mudrist vidkrytist that" all visible in your answer. I'm not talking about all Lviv, and only told about a specific case ...
Durick, you're talking about what you say that?) Learn to properly express their thoughts student, it is not clear about what you say. What have lezginka?) I've never seen a dance lezginka, not underground, not somewhere else.
Ukrainian tradition for the new year is not so well, just balvan holiday.
This is your grandmother brought the ammunition to the Germans in '43, a then 45 pussy substitutes the Red Army?
I rozmovlyayu banderіvskoyu movoyu and balachki lead. With your name to the church in general should not vilazit and minute punk fucking Satan serve, it's time you aspen stake driven into the brain.
Substitute the ass to those who pay the most, your idea is not new, only kaklov living standards even lower than in Russia, you do not pay the Germans for bare ass? Offer nothing more? And by developing the economy, as the Germans did not have enough brains, can only drool splashing from anger to "Katsap." By the way, the stink on you after nezalezhnosti fallen down yet more steel used to be someone to blame, and now only own wretchedness left, and therefore stank.
same as Pol Pot
Only Polish Ukrainians from Galicia to recognize the Nazi hero with the complexes of the country.
even the relatives of the murdered Polish flag women and children. You know that this knock a nail into a baby's brain, just because he Polish?
teach history moron, Bandera did not kill anyone, he was a politician
Why komenty udalyaete7
About language is debatable. We have all of the run-down high school teacher who speaks Ukrainian naturally more intelligent you will be several times)))
Victoria070571, this horror story I had heard in the scoop. could've come up with something new. Incidentally, in Lviv cafes near the station does not, and "Nalivaiko" for the rag-tag, apparently this is your level - personally I would have such an institution closer than 10 meters did not fit.
skіn steer
Zae ..... you shit! You still remember Egypt and all other her. Lessons from history should get, rather than measure pussy who better!
When the war came to Berlin, Bandera was asked to form from the remnants of Ukrainian Nazi troops and defend Berlin. Bandera squads had made, but he escaped.After the war he lived in Munich, has collaborated with the British secret services. At the conference, the OUN in 1947 elected chief conductor throughout the organization OUN.15 October 1959 Bandera was killed in her apartment building. Just retribution held ... my friend, who's next?
Go suck a Cheburashka, schmuck.
"Thanks to them in Parliament some order" - the order - it's in our Duma order. And in your Parliament has once again are "free fighting without rules." "Is a response to your chauvinists" - chauvinist - is first and foremost your Oleksandr Aronets. He is calling for a boycott of Depardieu. "In any case, they are promoting Ukrainian Ukraine and do not hesitate to talk about the crimes in Ukraine, Russia "- however, they are called Jews Yids
Eternal memory to the heroes of Ukraine, Bandera dogs to death!
I looked at your videovysery-to fuck you spank sponges as zaschekanets noble. And regarding the text - CG \ AM.
1917-1921 years, "the New York Times," 1921 "The purpose of "working" Russia is to store their wealth in banks in Europe and America. Over the past year, as we know, to the accounts of the Bolshevik leaders were received: From Trotsky $ 11 million in the bank in the U.S. alone and 90 million Swiss francs in the Swiss bank.Zinoviev from 80 million Swiss francs in the Swiss bank.From Dzerzhinsky 80 million Swiss francs to the same.Lenin from CHF 75 million to the same. "
You will not understand the answer. idysh ask about his "great" medveputa.on capital of his native land of Israel in Raska and the Moscow moved planiruet.zapuskay sidelocks!
Yes, but I already knew. I realized that ukroblyadi - a cancer of the planet and as at least one geek ukroblyadsky breathe our air - our planet is in great danger. Ukroblyadyam death! GLORY OF RUSSIA AND RUSSIAN ONLY!
....And who goes to the grave of Bandera, and yells that Vlasov Hera Russia? We are used to honor the true heroes, such as Marshal Zhukov, for example .... Well, you continue to pray for the bloodthirsty fanatics, it can somehow invigorates you ...) Or maybe it comes from the scarcity of these characters, and you want to mark prisobachit whole Ukrainian people, who shies away from such "Hero" ... (
he is your idol) you before going to bed at his picture wank
Bandera --- this thug, German flunky, a butcher of his people.
Now for the Russian Baltic Nazi propaganda is not relevant. In Ukraine, the Ukrainian Nazi lifts his head. Under Nazism refers to the national identity and independence. Bratushkam Slavs can not think of anything but to dream to become a vassal of Muscovy. Here is such a brotherly love.Wang, that 2013 will be marked by a total branding IN Liberty cries there the Nazis and Soviet potsriotov "help Russia". War of the Soviet monuments will be 100%. 
In Moscow, for whose money kommunyatskie Nedobitko march in Red Square?
That right invalid.You do not blame your mother sho you a bore.She just slept with anyone.Vodka and ate cum drinking.
"A banderіvtsі - nashі geroї" hohlozhopy motherfucker! Whose are yours? You only 0.5 percent of the Ukrainian population, and you have no right for everyone Gutor Lyudin nit. Sit and masturbate their huinu to Bandera in his closet Pope Carlo and his sui nosinu in Delina Garnier Ukraine!
Worthy rebuff those freaks! Well done! Subscribe to all your comments.
This made the chronicler Nestor.The entire capital of the Rostov people ..Suzhdal capital Merya people ..Moore Capital Murom people ..Ryazan capital city of the people .. mAAskva Erzya, the capital of the people Moksel ..Where's the Slavs?Happy new year Finno-Finnish-tatarva!
Well, certainly not assure Ukraine ......
You have to put this place Chechens and twirl you there quickly.
Where are the documents that prove your words? 
but you see, this brick fell on his head?
you stupid ass, abroad we do not distinguish and divide the Ukrainians, Russians and Belarusians, we are Russian, so you crap yourself now!
Bandera - coward and a traitor. We are for the Soviet veterans!
Crimea - Ukrainian Orthodox land, and Galicia, Austria-Hungary.And what do you want from Ukraine.
USSR, the country was for the people and now the people of the country and turned into slaves addicts do well redneck those that hate people and betrayed the entire Soviet people ... LZHEDEMOKRATY 25 years or 1% did better than it was in the Soviet Union!
Shame Ukrainians who support these bastards as Bandra - Nazi. And this march Fecal you move away from his brother Russian.
Russia has always prevented the independence of Ukraine. And continues to do so.
This, incidentally, came up with the Poles, to configure all of Europe against Russian, Ukraine and Belarus to capture and revive Rzeczpospolita. So all this nonsense about the "non-Slavic" Russian origin "- the Polish anti-Russian propaganda of the 17th century. A concept of Muscovites applies only to the imperial fifam from Moscow (for example it is used in relation to the so-called "royal ladies" from Moscow itself a great writer Shevchenko, and ordinary Russian he loved and considered the Slavs and the brotherly people).
Thumbs-up-who liked poetry, I tried .....
You - not Ukrainian. You - zapadenskaya scum, the Guardian of ethnic cleansing.Now go to the s ..., disdain to communicate with you.
, Erm, yes you, ugrofin, otmongolenny at all))), the mother of cities ugrofinskih)) 
If you ask me who voivali against Soviet plague and all who are now at war with Russia they puinskoy hero. to fight against the evil empire is a great honor.
GLORY Bandar fighters with ZHIDOBOLSHEVIZMOM!
27.25 of Andrei Sheptitskogov Israel there is a memorial "saints" are engraved with the names of "righteous" in their own right exceptional feats!Sheptytsky was famous for saving six (6) rabbis and their families! dumb host and creator of the film, many facts tear, twist, and simply lie! 
I'd like to believe that, after all, NATO was not allowed to Ukraine, and Yushchenko survived, I hope and bent Tyagnibok soon!
In Volyn staged atrocities disguised under Bandera NKVD. In order to discredit the UPA in the eyes of the local population. This is documentary evidence and eyewitnesses.
Bandera MANIAC KOSHKODAV
Fecal marching Okraintsa Okraintsy :))) probably in the cemetery, the brains had already been buried, and now is their mortal body upokoit and thus will live a normal life of other citizens.
And by the way bacon is delicious.And you're strange Russian wishing death and misery to the Russian people.
Kill and rape their children? shame on you and your ancestors.
And the Nazis yak .. go and love?laughter and only
Rotface is zhidovskoe Codlea, surrounded by some Jews. Take for example Japan, which ranks first in the world in terms of living and GDP, but in Japan there is nothing! no minerals! You know what is not in Japan, they are so fun live - Japan has no russsky barbarians. That is the main condition for happiness, no Russian! That's when we finally free from the Russian invaders, shall we, Ukrainians, and begin to live like human beings. As it is made all the nations that sent Russian tries
A stupid and jealous always and everywhere was going bad.!Our happiness is in our hands.Want to be happy-be!.Happiness does not depend on someone and not from something, but from you ... Do you want to be schizophrenic on the video you want "dominuvaty" - finished in the nuthouse, as Bandera, or Napoleon, or maybe as Mavka (choose to taste)!
Oh, your Bandera with OUN UPA not heroes? The very same pains that they were fighting for freedom and independence. What SS Division galitchina and Nachtigal, who burned the village and killed women, children and the elderly, and now after them parades in Lviv street name?
Probably a hint that the nation is not an option offense are not understood. Dovypendrivaeshsya, passenger ...
Lorenz Wachter - "I really can not describe what we saw in Lviv. This is much worse than that, we could describe the German newspapers. Even the stench of dead bodies, which could be felt far away from the prison walls, was enough to make a person sick. Hundreds of dead men, women and children, horribly mutilated. The men had their eyes put out, the priest was rip his stomach, and placed there in body of the dead baby. ".
FUCKelnoe procession fascist! ;-)))))))
spells do not help, they need mozgi.a just you and net.dlya to "Ukraine belonged Ukrainians" - the power you already captured Jews, and you're stupid and do not rusofobstvuete zametili.kak zhidomutanty your country from the "State - friends Palestine "made in" State - Palestinian enemy "Your EUROPEAN JEWISH Jews opened and the International Jewish channel broadcasting in all the languages ​​of the world, where obgazhivayut Islamic countries and Ukraine pit with Islam.Jews are buying your plants and land
You're from the Russian long pussy did not get, or what?It happened so fucking soldier!
Indeed, this is how it was necessary to brainwash us, "zapadentsam" so we defended the right of existence of the native language, so we defended the right to work and to a quiet life ... What should have been brainwashed my countrymen, that I, a 40-year-old man, still have not seen addicts in your city! (They have a couple of pieces, but they are "Eastern Slavs" - heard from others that they communicate in Russian). In short, come yourself to us and take a look. 
Yeah katsapskie commentators as ever farted in a puddle. sporoli garbage and rejoice.Everyone knows that the Red Army was famous massacre of civilians. For example Tambov.
Russia's better than the "margin."
And under the authority of the Soviet Union, where the capital of the Soviet Union? - In Moscow. Location manage internal and external policy of the USSR? ie from the Kremlin Russia. Hto you said that Ukraine and Russia - United Russia? Bogdan Khmelnitsky Pereyaslav Rada on January 18, 1654 gave the Ukraine to Russia to protect them from the Byzantine Empire (Turkey). That was his big mistake, as long delayed the decision on Ukraine's independence.
Bandera did not even know that the Ukrainian mova composed in Canada by replacing Russian words in Polish. it is fucking all
A controversial person. And this is probably attracts people. Lions honor it, probably for good reason. Although, many will disagree with Lviv. The most interesting thing, too, for good reason.
And it would be a shame, in front of your friends pidarasovskimi Bendertsomi ..If you further pizduley Jew! And yes, the father of Russian ..His mother was Jewish. I am proud of Israel and Russia ...Kiev, Sevastopol is a Russian city ...! Got it? Fucking bastard!
If a cross sign, then who do you think built the designed and built mills, hydro power plants, used the technique in agriculture. But without such an education to do was impossible. Yes they were not Ukrainian, they were Soviet. Because I'm sorry, but the other people of the country do not understand Ukrainian. 
Che suck Cheburashka?)))Manda mist fucking katsapsky chauvinist, I've not selling any of their country, nor history.I am a patriot of Ukraine and proud of it, because I will not ever hahlom or Little Russia, as some eastern Ukrainians.Come substitution, beckoning from you asshole stinks on the entire Internet)))
Bandera centuries continued the armed struggle for freedom and independence of Russia-Ukraine.He was not going to wait any signing papers, because at that time about any piece of paper is not out of the question.What kind of "caravans" you say?
That's what I wanted to convey in other words that there obolduyu-knowing with whom I'm talking.
Zaydit on YaPfayly i have naberit Poshuk-site video-Bandera.Duzhe tsikavo.
author together in a bunch of flies and cutlets. he is so bogged down in their hatred of Bandera, which puts him at fault, even a small increase. incidentally throw mud Croat fascists and makes innocent lambs. differently than the stream of consciousness, this crafts and not name. next movie will probably be about how Bandera attacked the USSR and every morning for breakfast to eat on a communist.
They just fucked everyone who ever wanted - Poles, Romanians, Tatars, Turks, Kor <wbr>-ochevse who are not too lazy and it's out of habit, sucking dick euro, puffs on Russia - his envy eats it servant of nobodies and he shit
I always do, when Russia and its henchmen "hit" as a person can be considered a hero who fought for the freedom and independence of their country, and how can you not love the Bolsheviks, because they brought the collectivization, the abolition of private property, the famine-genocide <wbr> - and e, the extermination of the Ukrainian culture and rossifikatsiyu.How is it?))))))
The paradox, what can I say) While us what the hell is the difference. At least let anyone zapodderzhivaetsya. All the same, the outcome will be one, and we know what; D
Where half? This is for you in Odessa seems that the Russian language is very popular in Ukraine, according to the official data of the last census, it is home to only 29% of the population. And a half and does not smell. Separate areas in any region can be an indicator for the whole country. This is a drop in the ocean. Once again, in the Ukraine, all national minorities, except Russian, summary account for only 2% of the population. And the kings and scoop us all sit on katsapskoe adverb, so that now there is a symmetrical response
...Dickhead body sits deep in you ...) Who else can enjoy video "Natsіonalіzm" no matter how this incurable pervert like you! ...)))))
of steamer pizdanul Zhirik --- in the sense that they put them in there and not what they wanted. And what do the neighbors with the Ukrainian people for hundreds of years? and it was not an attack but hit reply. NKVD and incomparably more people killed. zaebatelskie guys. if you lie - that all can whitewash. Maskaev and make that life. Putin stole the election to vote or not --- a security question
On the dick, Michael, your asshole nice hereditary piderast. :-)))
I do not understand the thesis of the disastrous path. I live in an independent state, a fact which has struggled Bandera
dumbass, Russian language to learn for a start! Glory of the customs union and away from our long Bandera Russian territory!
And out of the village to pick up the boy, too, is impossible. There is no so-called "netiquette" .. No matter what your reasons or conclusions are based. And I'm with you, too, no longer talk about. 
In this connection, we feel sorry for? I have a defined position relative to the history of my country. And you, by the way people in other countries are saying what to believe? No, if you please.
Half-truth is worse than a blatant lie, because it seems to be true. The author of this movie to burn in hell for the hatred he stirs up his false propaganda.The Greek Catholic Church and simple Galician villagers saved thousands of Jews despite the fact that for any help Jews was one sentence - death.
Very educated, "open, wise and visionary" citizen. 
... You're going to end? ...And I really Klitschko friends - enemies, I would not call them! ...And now about the heroism of their friends and benderastov shlyuhevicha tell, and that you are stesnyashkami prekidyvaetesya ....)
Yes, and here it is, all you war dreaming. Just in Russia do not want to attach to a country where a very strong anti-Russian sentiment. Here in Belarus are loyal to Russia, Putin has them in all holes, and many nationalists in Latvia - PROFIT, Raska not fuck brain. So that
how people lived an interesting life!
mmmm ... crest and goldeneye not respect? ay-ay-ay ... :-D Ukraine - is a suburb .. though you usris:-D, and the Kiev Rus was not Ukraine :) :-) here you certainly can again cleverly appeal to reliable facts falsify history damned Russian:-D But only history stubborn, she needs facts, not speculation hohlofashistov sample 1992:-D In just 20 years, you have there a Herath pile up .. almost bones of Adam and Eve look:-D Know the people ... the first humans were not negros and Ukrainians:-D
I Opinion vashemuDvizhene betrayed.A axis bylMoy genitals. Paul71Zibert
GLORY DIVІZІЇ SS GALІTSІYA!
{0}Propaganda.{/0} {1} {/1} There's quite a lot of distorted and not all information is presented, and interfere with the findings of facts.
Anton, I do not disagree with you. What's the Poles? After Nestor precisely specified. That. The entire capital of the Rostov people. Suzhdal capital people to measure. Moore Capital nation Murom. Capital city of Ryazan Erzya people. mAAskva, capital Moksel people. Where's the Slavs? Specify where there Slavs. Or declare Nestor agent in Poland.
I can not say anything about you other than you're sick to golovu.1.Bandera is not only a hero for Ukrainophobes-moskofilov, since <wbr>-ku fought for Ukrainian independence, freedom and gosudarstvennost.2.Why do you need to see a specialist, what "Little" you say it is?3.And who does not recognize the Russian?Kremlin litter not recognize Ukrainians, with those in their own land, in their sacred homeland!4.How many of Russia, her never had such abominations as chauvinism.Only you.
I repeat, there was a civil war. Do not you want to read the data as Bandera sawed two-handed saw people live or cooked alive in boiling water Komsomol members, and local, Ukrainian, and why was such a cruel death? Or by order of Bandera in 19,944 destroyed all Primakov Red Army stragglers and deserted in 1941, just because they are Russian, and hence potential agents of the NKVD?And your numbers read 20 years ago, well, that then declassified archives and gave scans. 
+100. Actually smiled ;)
srach not between Muscovites and Ukrainians and between Rusichi and Galicia (where there is little Ukrainians). For about 85% of the population does not consider the murderer of women and children in any Bandera a hero. Moreover - despise the bastard.
very simple - they thought that Hitler will make Ukraine svobodnoychto you do not like it?
You, moron, what has already been said, the Soviet Union on the 39th reached the old border, regaining territory captured by Poland in the 20th year. And Poland to the Soviet Union was an enemy state and up to 09/01/39 Germany's ally (and even grabbed a slice of Czechoslovakia to its annexation by Hitler).And, by the way, the question of the concentration camp in life Bandera dropped?
You guys really started. Everything people do not share your point of view, and of course always proplachennymi enemies of Russia. Why can not I have a point of view different from yours? After all, it concerns my country, not Russia. 
DALBAEBY Bandera was a half-breed JEW
You do not take your jewish pogroms one jealous.Do not defend its Jews.They made the whole story on the blood of other people and apotom zhidi reformats story that would hide his dealings.: Jews and Ukraine lacks and what you are their zaschischaesh tells you Jew.
Well koneeeeechno .. all who speak impartially, for people like you vysery Jews! 
I will not - I do not want to fight against the wall, fighting moron. So you can go down to their level.
tell the truth!
"General fascists indignantly wrote in June 1949 about the pogroms nivchem innocent Jews and Poles banderovtsaim" - somehow does not sound .. no, well, well done that trying razobratsya in fact happening .. But the benefit not only of the official Soviet Propaganda, if you are interested in truth, not stupid propoganda
Ahah, fanatics stopki Bandera resent))) Not your Home Army pi ... lei in Volyn give.
It shows that you're Russian zone, neobіznanaya.
I'm probably not an educated man, but explain to me are (TM) Ukrainian "struggle" for "independence." Well they are for freedom did not fight, but rather "robbed caravans." But independence is not got through armed struggle, and the signing of the relevant papers. Or was it like that in another way?PS Greetings from Poland.
by a dick in the ass kiss, many times
they are too stupid, it is invisible they are not even allowed in the trams in Lviv 
Yeah, how many ohrenevshim rusishvaynam is haunted by the existence of independent Ukraine
Katsap we not brothers, you sheep!!!!roundnose dunce)))))
Padlyuki.
And Natsik Liberals Ljubljana. :)))
A theme VOvoyny? Where no-one poke the Holocaust, one Jewish genocide. Kike mud-and 27mln. sacrifices of the Soviet Union, and 10 million dead Germans, and others in losing 2 world, why did you not say to them? If we analyze the history, knowingly, in all ages, hated this rotting mass, called Judases!!
Faster than you strung up on the rack Judas.
Lord knows how the NKVD and the UPA were criminals, what someone from nationalists shot, the question arises as Banderovschina not killed anyone or not they are clean and fluffy. As they both have these bastards. Just one raises, the other not. 
OMG. I'm shocked. Well, now it's clear pechemu Russians dislike west. What do you like zombie is just pzdts. Video moronic bullshit
it's all true!Russia is justice in the world.Who consider themselves nationalist crest-die!It is high time to give western Ukraine to be devoured by the Poles.And those who hold Russian traditions and customs, Russia will not leave this nit!Now that I know who our enemies are and who want to destroy!You are an evil minority!Sorry for my grandparents force that protects you from death, back to all the haters Russian-road!
I have been in Lviv is a beautiful city, people live a good, friendly. Well, at least, I have not seen the bad, though it was in Soviet times.But myths about zaslantsev NKVD do not, it's all been denied. Is the NKVD on June 30, along with the fascists rushed to the city and in the first days of the occupation has destroyed more than 3 thousand Poles and Jews, among whom there were 70 scientists from around the world? Is the NKVD during the 1941-1944 killing civilians? 
Duthie SKRIVDITI NІKOMU NOT HONOR SVOЄЇ NATSІЇ!LIQUID!
ahahaha are probably brain washed by 100? what about you Bandera need to know? if I may say! everyone knows how smart-ass was your hero Bandera! in contrast to you and your Patriots, I know whereof I speak, in the western Ukrainian schools uchat you hate everything Russian, mow under the Europeans, you believe them and renounce the common history with Russia! result of such propaganda: you Bandera. Ukrainians is a betrayal of the Russian name. 
Glory to Ukraine!! Glory to the heroes 
In addition to your hysterical laughter did not understand. You do not like to suck Caucasians? Do I understand correctly? However, very crumpled comment. Read the Russian textbook at leisure.
Is that you blame all and sundry Hamish Your vospitanieVmesto to omit other, better be engaged in the business - to raise Russia
like a procession of hangers-NATO
Hahaha laugh, you're a year or how much? Kid teach history. Incidentally voronov271olegne your younger sister (brother)?
Gestapo members actively exterminated the UPA in 1941. confirmation of the secret orders of the Wehrmacht.
S.Bandera kill Ukrainians semyami and children killed. He may be a citizen of Ukraine. What is he a hero? He is a disgrace Ukraine! 
Well that Bandera Red Army cleaned out of the woods. They received for their crimes and collaboration with the enemy.
you Jews' Pull dick out of his mouth before a Batko so razgovarivatSlavyani should live peacefully and this is the only enemy of the Jews, and bump against Bandera and utterly Vlasov! There was a war and they are with their delusions ... prevented forge great victory elib not the USSR would have been on the planet some Germans is 100%!!!!!!!!!<wbr> -!!!
... useless to explain ... teach them the story of the true Ukrainians Yokornyyboki and Farion ... ( Very significant subject can be found here on YouTube called LVIV turbidity or with another patient obsessed - Tyagnybok (fascists Banderas). Ukraine 2004
and the truth
Russia - Autonomous Region of China!
Defections were constant (only for 1-year ran about 800chel). Basically "heroes divizyynyki" fought with the local population, with sweeps, widely used in punitive actions (which you knew the unit and was based initially as a police officer) in Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia.Leaving a trail of blood and contempt that of the FT-SS soldiers, that part of the soldiers of the Red Army, as well as hatred of the civilian population ...Judas, in a word!
Movie from putivizora. See Muscovites and masturbate on bullshit. 
It is very much Banderlog and another 20 million in the CIS countries and here in hohlendville - decrease by millions! Where are your "52" million? - In her pussy? Here I am about this - a pussy you all sit EUROPE AND ALL RUNNING podmahivala ha-ha-ha
I understand, of course, myself am in the Ukraine, I see that people live poorly, everything fell apart. From this and is an insult to Russia, but we live too, in my opinion, disgusting. But in Belarus, on the contrary, there is no nationalism. I do not take our three separate people, we have a common homeland, our ancestors lived, talked, fought together. 
Misch, and about Vitushka tell anything, he, like, your countryman.I porzhem.
how I live, and I have heard it so much that Europe is bent, and Russia blooms riotous color. Only here in Russia, people live worse than animals, as bonded slaves in his empire Russian concentration camp, separated from all tsivilizovanngo community like lepers. The difference to the Russian occupation and after the Russian okkpunatov squeezed from the land of all nations, is that now all the people to decide their own destiny alone!, No Russian presence. That's the main thing, think about it
Stalin's death, the Jews also destroyed, after what they did in 1917, their branch in each column should be hanged.
and you read something, and that life will ... dibiloydomVictor Polischyuka-he hails from Galicia, and was living there at the time, described in detail Banderlog ...Even Natsik bulb Borovets (who fought komunyakami) believed Bandera executioner worst fascists and communists ....
you bastard, my great grandfather was killed in this red flag that would mras such as you live. Bandar sad shit. Nowhere in the Ukraine, you and Pickney! In Poltava, so sure! Sit in their mountains, and not rock the boat.
I do not confuse any modes or country. and the Baltic states do not blame in something bad, they want so let live, in someone's house I do not climb ... and as for that in Kazakhstan all chiki bunches, not pour, it is equivalent to say, in any country counters bunches ... Points then pink all just have different shades ...
In fact, both you and we still live in the minds of the scoop - the result of 70 years of the destruction of culture and intelligenii Communists. Especially with 20 to 56 years. I - for the Slavic brotherhood, based on mutual respect. But why are you so strong Russophobia? Why do you think that in any form can not be a unified state? Together - we are stronger. 
"These people are their enemies," Why?How do you take?
what a funny scarecrow - arrogated to itself a comical nickname and decided that it can now broadcast on behalf of the entire regions of the country. Vaporized, misfortune - do not be ridiculous southerners))
Bandera talk on the wild mix of Ukrainian and Polish and partly rural dialect (sometimes on a regular surzhik) that no one but them can not understand, but it sounds like this whole thing is very funny even for the Ukrainians, good volodiyuchih movoyu. Vidstali nazavzhdi.
Mate history taught not to "Wikipedia" should be read SM Nightingales, VO Klyuchevsky Shcheglov A.i.t.d. "Ukraine" has emerged as a place-name, denotes the marginal lands of Poland and Muscovy, as "Little Russia" (or Southern Russia) is valid at the time the ethnonym for the "Little Russian / South Russian" narodnosti.slovo "Ukraine" as a household name in the value of the Borderlands , the border area or the area is known in Russian, and Polish, and they have long been used in 
What a funny movie ... Blah, blah, blah, no papers, no facts - that was invented in the red area, the journalist and read. There is a pleasing phrase: "We chose a hero." Or "kill any innocent man," It's about consul - invader. A Bandera, a terrorist would not paint it, though ... and how to deal with Christ-who buy enemies - Germany, and in fact those who now rules the world, took to ruin such territory. Ah, a little on the commies Bander was. 
this video = false History Facts + + Great Russian propaganda has turned inedible salad from which vonyaet1. interesting author discusses the NKVD executions of Ukrainians in Lviv, as standard procedure, 2. OUN-B has refused to cooperate with the Nazis because they were considered OCCUPIERS, 3, and so on a bunch of lies, and even otsebyatinyNo through this warped lies movie shows the heroic Postup Ukrainian nationalists. Glory to the heroes! Glory to Stepan Bandera!
To shit ... stop everything together before the war and during the deaths of many innocent people, and that is a fact, but your Bandera fought with anyone? Do you want to continue the war? You there in Bulgaria boring?
in the second. it is my business where I live and what I do 
March beggars hahlyatskih pig dick on the track for the sperm on their dirty gastarbaytarskoe ebalo pahavat with hunger suction and grunting with pleasure 
Bandera spent almost the entire war in a Nazi concentration camp, but he sovkonutyh morons still "fashyst."When people stop taldychit kommunyatsky nonsense and learn to think his own head?
"Winning the War" - took part in the wars not only Russian, but also many other nationalities. Remember Finnish war? You'd be surprised, but there USSR tried to "liberate" the richest Finns oppressed by the capitalists, ie climbed up there as well as got into the Baltics, Western Ukraine ... Liberated from the Nazis? Thank you, bow! But after that, it is necessary to leave the liberated territory! But no! .. In my grandparents, and my wife chose the earth! Then how to relate to these liberators?
it's you and your fagot of Lenin, Stalin and climbed everywhere! would have climbed to your home kakieto fagot with a portrait of Lenin would look at you! Now if only someone would prishol on my land komandyvat Rubaie would with a knife!!
Dead with braids along the roads are ...
Ukrotyurki with torches - it's funny looking. ))) But European Natsik, in any, went more smoothly, so ukrotyurkskim Natsik can learn from the Germans. 
Love Bandera .... and know how to cook them))
What further cooperation?Lefortovo its holding only Stalin
it zapadoidnye Ukrainians - they are few and hated by the majority of Ukrainians themselves, much of the Russian which there are millions, I do not say anything - it's just "zapadentsy" - litter Brussels
YOU BITCH BENDARA What would YOU negros in the ass to hell fucked NIMECHIK HRENAV FOSHYST OBOSRANY YOU, YES wakes GREAT RUSSIA,
Dumb corrupt Tabachnik! The minister who is not half zdal exams in the 11th grade school! Shame!
Leon, you do not worry about me, the Chechens, just bandits, I for myself and my stand I can. Heard about Sugrue, guys bandyukov shoot, half of the solar region? Well, I also have all of their relatives and almost all hunters.Mozhet heard about a Russian soldier who refused to remove the cross and that Chechens head cut off? Some of those Chechens then in my town caught - Angarsk wanted to hide away in Siberia. And there are more of them on the ground that, and no one was afraid.
kaklozhop, you're my addiction What are you doing with my mama, do not tell it
and you were in Chechnya, navodyl'schyk fucking? You're at home, even Chechens fear .... sit in Siberia and its not rock the boat ...
SHO schmuck we laughed together over you and you pulled the tail and removed his koment.Fuck the heroes.
"... For what it was 20 years ago." Ie nischyuyu and smelly for Ukraine?
Russian, unite, do not let us ukrobydlu Ukrainise the lands of New Russia, Crimea, Luhansk, Donechchina
Shit nіkoli not vіr Moskal
In ZANITSU ITSELF Shove These titles, along with such "heroes" HOW: brick, drought, Zvyagilsky and other "worthy" PARTY.
I said nothing, waiting for your reply.
Katsap And Muscovites! YOU ALL BITCHES and prostitutes! He is our hero! YOU DO NOT UNDERSTAND etogo dogs!
And anything that "stinky Muscovites" after the war to rebuild the city? Bandera is a nationalist schizophrenic. Now there is not a single pure nation (all mixed up). What do mean?
And exactly what nationality nerd in Siberia must disconnect? Altai Buryats Dolgans Kety (or Yenisei Ostiaks) Komi Muncie (or Vogulichi) Nenets Selkups (or Ostyak-Samoyed) Siberian Tatars of Khakassia Khanty Chukchi Shors Evenki Evens Yukaghir Yuga (the people) (or Sym Ostiaks) Yakuts Teleuts
3.In honor of one of these units is not ustraival.4 parades.A Why are you so quiet that we have Tuyev cloud monuments and streets Bolshevik cates?Lenin, Dzerzhinsky, cap (even though he was the commander of the guerrilla unit, or rather the connection), Kotovsky, E.Bosh, N <wbr>-Ors, streets Commissars, etc., etc., etc.
Stepan Bandera and J. Stetsko in 1943, announced the creation of an independent state in the territory of Western Ukraine. They introduced a new currency - Bandera karbovanetses. Stepan Bandera was counting on the support of the Nazis in the war against the Bolsheviks in upholding the independence of Ukraine. But Hitler did not want the independence of Ukraine as well, and Stalin. For it in 1943 Stepan Bandera and J. Stetsko were captured by the Nazis and placed in a concentration camp Zaksenhaus. In which the two were up to December 1944.
about Putin s2nimi
Komunyakami - on gіllyaku!Abo on vashomu: lengthwise to the Garden Ring, each lamp of the communists ...
From the words of my grandfather.His father, my grandfather, during a famine in the Kuban Cossacks, they went to Ukraine, then they called it the breadbasket through fertile land.And they brought out a lot of food.Where is the logic?If Ukrainians shared a meal with a Russian.Together experienced this trouble.But some Yuschenko certainly knows better.
Distort history? And why 80 year-old grandmother in the villages in the west talk about UPA well? They remember that war. And Bandera in German konslagere sat.
Ukraine project is designed to destroy Russia. Fuck you and not destruction. Read about his movu rusarmageddon.narod.ru / liter / u <wbr> -kr/ukr1.htm. Although not read. Svidomity you know everything without reading the books.
pososesh, bunny - "freedom" in the parliament and it is only we nachaloskoro seared with a hot iron like these katsapskih "Doe", not remembering their relationship. must live in Ukraine, Ukrainians, and not any moral monsters of unknown proiskhozhdeniyaslava Ukraine.
Russian you are allowed it, in Ukraine this is not!We do not dance lezginka just like that!You just fuckers!YOU only inet tough-on chaos in the subway you just swing your head!
Canine bullshit.
Banderlog .... said, on all fours, and actively podmahivaya by one - then bryusselyu.to states - occasionally spitting sperm Israel and looking at Qatar dick .. ha ha Khanas with them not to be confused
Why pile chmoshnikov decided that they have on someone else doing whatever I like I want it to be independent of etih cave Bandera who themselves their history themselves ischyut from anyone be zavisimymi.esli svobodovtsev Vigone their areas of all whom they considered not acceptable to who will take Your indigenous women that men have and do not have by and large all over the hill
So stop. I have no way to whitewash any of the army.I am very interested in where you got such a true and fair reporting of "godless destruction Georgians" what nonsense is this? Is that you learned from the news zomboyaschika? Or do you just pisudstvoval while. You and I may never know the truth about it.Well as your brain washed, I wonder you did it know? Fewer see zomboyaschik and enough to watch "true" commercials on YouTube about the war, think with your head.
20 years will surely be a gyro!
fun at ourselves to see, of course
Glory to the heroes!
coalition - is when a common goal, and the Allies - the total vrag.angliya and France were in the anti-Hitler coalition, but the Soviet Union was their ally - though countries themselves were not friends and did not plan to be friends - prsoto are united by a common enemy in time of war deystviyah.tak here original packaging Germany was seen as an ally - are united against a common enemy.Muscovites! and what the people of Western Ukraine dick can poschitat Russian enemy? Why can the Poles, Balts can and Ukrainians can not?
until you just suck 
Yes no wrong, who did not give you to live after the collapse of the Soviet Union, so no heated with Russian gas and that in return for a Ukrainian proverb says "our bacon and Musalam us", but do not live in the neighborhood, and that's the end of it's patience , the gas is likely a year or two you will block and it will be one of the first steps, you can say that gas we chatter, yes of course that we have what we have but we can not live with a neighbor to get away energy and resources on the cheap in return for pouring his dirt.
And I do not inflate anything. Unfortunately, for obvious reasons (it's been bolshe10 years), I can not specify the name of the "establishment" (perhaps, no longer exists, then landside cafe). Again, the same thing: yes, they say, is in the West louts, but here in the East they are still more .... Be sure to make the "attack", right? )) Well, what we do now, since we live: and not in the world, and not at war .. Somewhere ...
togo.ves little world believes. only you doubting Thomas 
... Write your own version of the adventures Heroicheskih Shlyuhevicha and his sidekick Styopka - porzhem ...
Both Poland and the Soviet government and rosiyskoy empires before reworked Ukrainians in Russian subspecies - malorosov. Like the Russian, only slightly worse quality - younger brothers. Only reason older brother went from an ethnic Ukrainian capital - the mother of Russian cities - Kiev. So the Russians out of Ukrainians younger brothers, and even then not all, because descendants of Russian Slavs very little. Here in Russia this no one speaks.
Vatutin your one of its soldiers killed more than Makhno Petlura Bandera, Shukhevych together - their enemies. The present Hera USSR. If you do not believe me, take a Memory Book killed in WWII. Much of the dead in those parts that were subordinate Vatutin. A complete moron.
Good for you! Mi Peremozhemo!
Stepan Bandera fought on two fronts for independence from Russia and from Nazi Germany. He dreamed of an independent Ukraine, and his dream came true. 
Since none of them had a racist-nationalist fiction, not lied that Russia-Russian and did not arrange the murder of innocent people as your Bandera-Hungary. Moreover, this Hungarian you lied that Ukraine Ukrainians, he himself was Hungarian, he had to kill himself if he said that he was a racist. And do you ever do a complete bozo-Lenin multicultural by birth, Stalin, Ossetians and Trotsiky Jew who has never been in favor of Trotsky, on the contrary, he was despised by all the enemies of the people.
This program has shown once again how much they feared insurgents that, like the bone in the throat of their sitting. why for Moscow to his chauvinism is not removed rossiyachnam film.chem friendly teach malorosov
your nickname and post somehow incompatible
Only moronic katsap could throw-this crap here on YouTube)))))
NІKOLI VIZHEVE NOT THAT PEOPLE, YAKY SPRIYMAЄ TRAKTUVANNYA SVOЄЇ ІSTORІЇ ochima SUSІDA.  NІTSSHE
though I am Russian living in Transcarpathia, I believe that he is a hero, it is propaganda, not history 
I'm your nurse in the ass first. Try, orovergni
Who is your brain washed so hard and hazarin?
The call to communicate in their native state language - undemocratic?
If the entire population of Western Ukraine believes that Stepan Bandera is a national hero, then what right does or who deny it and force their views?
Fosterling fascist, you tell the civilized world of the atrocities ounovtsev Volyn.How many thousands of innocent Polish children, and the elderly zhenschin tortured these filthy "heroes."
Nonsense, Bandera knocked komunyakami, and rightly so, sorry that all is not knocked out.
You're wrong, because fiction abroad.
Bogdan felt flattered that he is protected from .. which, by the way, and did not threaten the Cossacks. Bi e of Byzantium. By the way it was then and there already ..
I repeat ... - Dickhead war with bugs and earthworms kryivke ...) And you, as benderast should know! ...)
Khokhlov completely brain washed, just do not read the history of Bandera and the present. And soon the contract and the Russians will be the descendants of the Vikings.
Glory of the Hero of Ukraine 
Svolota MOSKALSKA
Hahaha laugh, you're a year or how much? Kid teach history. Incidentally voronov271olegne your younger sister (brother)?
"No matter what killed an innocent man, the end justifies the means" - this principle followed Stepan Bandera and his followers, well, what can not be said about the Soviet government ...
So you brought a new formula, well where there is no Russian, but I think where there like you is better. In America, full of Russian, Jews even more kaklov bulk also has negros, Mexicans and others. but they do not live by this bad. And your beloved Germany and I have been there and met a lot of Russian, but it does not harm the Germans. In general I'm tired of you, you need a psychiatrist, ade!
No, now that option is no longer possible, since the world went to the capitalist path of development.A national equality is clearly seen in civilized Europe, in Russia, I do not see it.
Katsap can re .. stone on his head! But no more! No wonder these fagot world does not like, oh, no wonder ...
Ukrainian married to a Russian, before the wedding night the father gives him instructions. - First highly throw wife on the bed to know that Ukraine - is power - then abruptly Grab her clothes to know that Ukraine - is beauty.A grandfather sits in a corner and listen says - and then begins to masturbate to know that Ukraine - is the independence.
sho do you know your chicken brain? Bandera niodnogo your village did not free, but only helped the occupiers ... so sho ... not blather zadrota
Do not tell me that you, for the sake of raising the Ukrainian spirit, too postroete medintsinskie camps and will refer to all non-Ukrainians there? Incidentally, one of the goals Tyahnybok - return all ethnic Ukrainians, who for various reasons live outside of Ukraine. And at the same time - a total ban on emigration. Yes it will pohlesche than Stalin Union and the Third Reich, it will be a totalitarian, what the world knew only in Albania.
I was fighting in the Avganistane and seen a lot. People had to fight for an independent Ukraine, not the Ukraine in the Soviet Union.
Then explain to me ... has thrown, for what kind of freedom your benderasty killed unarmed families (and the cruelty and sadism with which they did it hit seen a German). Yes, and why they are killing children with babies, and then tied to trees (there is documentary evidence in the form of documents and photos) ... (....The tribes eat people with hunger .... I hope you are well fed?
Son, you better get some treatment.
... And what with the fact that foreigners are also served for the benefit of the Fatherland? After all, he is not in any way adversely affected by the policies of the State. 
80,000 Ukrainians were SS soldiers ... aguet easy.Is it that such a gesture?Yushchenko and proud of them?Yes he is a traitor of Ukraine ...The Americans wanted to sell all ...
Bandera Vlasov - HEROES motherfuckers!
it's all garbage maskalskaya --- but where does Fascism? Stalin and the other fools were worse fashizma.yasno Maskall that all who wanted to be free --- enemies and he had them dirty. on dick when those plants has never been normal goods and supplies, all through the garden dick --- zasranye lived only party members. freedom fighters were rewarded - and rightly so. zasranye and Stalinists were not punished. Dora from your people ran and they were not allowed --- the wall in Berlin - and the bastards shot. shame. finish stupid pp
Yeah fufel full. Why not tell us how the NKVD shot innocent people for their beliefs? Why not take off about how General kozachih SS Krasnov, with the blessing of the Moscow Patriarchate to build a statue in Moscow and Kuban. In Russia are its Shukhevych and Bandera was not?
Bandera was in a Nazi concentration camp, it is acknowledged even by the Party of Regions.And your hatred for the Galicians - it is fascism kakraz
Mom bought a horse, And his feet friction, Yucca Chudova igrushkaHuevo bi bad.
interesting historical conflicts: torchlight procession - Nazis - Myunhen.i need it so happens that it is in Munich citizen has managed to move the horses.
Bastard! POCHEKAY - MI DOKІNCHIM YOUR cope.
Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchev - it's your real heroes. It is they who have created the Ukraine, not zalUPAntsy ... Muscovites and they killed more than Banderlog. Strange you. Loser loser Bandera and Mazepa monuments bet, and real heroes of Ukraine curse.
Konovalca finished Sudoplatov. Both Ukrainian. Who killed Bandera? Moskal or Ukrainian?
...And Mazepians, Petliurists and just Ukrainians ...Hate the Rus-Ukraine non-Russian face! You go to your favorite Muscovites who betrayed their own language and culture. By blood, they threaten Finns should speak in a language close to the Estonian (hence the endless "Akane" this "Russian" language). Traitors! Putintsev! Medvedevtsy! Glory Rusі-Ukraїnі!
This should be understood to mean that you have made a fascist since childhood?
Do you strongly against it, swab? Nobody in the world does not know the sting you apart from Russia. And is viewed as an appendage, not more.
Long time ... something you do not let go of the stopper ...) You see, I finally lost the vocabulary ...)))
Cave nationalist first drunk sleep it off on a paper globe Bender. 
A blow to the back of the state in alliance with Hitler - is not this an attack?however, they agreed to advance together, but Stalin decided that let Hitler plunge, to lead the world to announce his ogre, then you can start lyudoedstvokstati AK tips too have stated Nazi collaborators ;-))
You do not comment, and diarrhea words .. move ka argumentі Ukrainians worse than the English or Russian? 
And you know I write in Russian do not know how? And what your nickname is not clear. First, learn the rules of spelling and then try something someone fill)))) Go to school, your level of education I understand it completely missing.))) So do not pozortes. Look a fool.
Glory to the heroes! Pіdtrimuyu!
Yes nobody founded - some suckers gathered out on the balcony, shouted about the "independence" and that was it - it is a myth that remains on paper a few idiots. This is how our "Amir" and all sorts of "AMIRATY" on our territory - you know where to ownership? - And no one knows - and so it was that the "state"
Russians and Ukrainians were traitors, I do not borrow sides.I judge with justice.Honor that your Bandera did, and how he killed people.Vlasov and the same thing worked.You just read Mein Kampf.Hitler wanted to destroy Ukrainians and Russians.We have thousands of years was common country, we have the same DNA in geplotipy-R1a1.We're talking about the same language.The Americans admitted to the world that sponsored the Orange Revolution.Modern history books written on amekanskie grants.
benderlogi hahlyatskie always suck dick host to survive with hunger and keep your business benderlozhe sucking dick on the track with a satisfied pig gastarbaytasrkim rylorm 
Katsap-Trololo-promotion :)))
Fag-ZAPADENSKIE vu LIFE TO HELL Polish gentry lick the Germans-fucking-BITCH YOU HOW WE ALWAYS YOU pussy VMAZHEM ALL-RUSSIAN not wake Misha!
If in 1939-1941 gg Soviet authorities took so actively debunk the mass terror of western Ukrainians hope of a better life in the Soviet Ukraine, than under the pressure of the reaction of Poland until 1939, it is very possible that the history of UPA would be the history of the heroic guerrilla struggle against the Ukrainians only Hitler's troops, and not a totalitarian regime of the USSR. Never rosiyane were perceived as enemies of the Ukraine, Ukrainians, and exceptional
Then explain to me ... has thrown, for what kind of freedom your benderasty killed unarmed families (and the cruelty and sadism with which they did it hit seen a German). Yes, and why they are killing children with babies, and then tied to trees (there is documentary evidence in the form of documents and photos) ... (....The tribes eat people with hunger .... I hope you are well fed?
Radio Armenia delighted Muscovites to the new year :))))
Not anyone you ask in the world, mayonnaise slap him if he knows a country Ukraine, in the best case to answer, saying that this is where Russia. So banderovets, you can even crap, though uporotsya, but there is no country and never will. And Russia is and will be, in spite of you, assholes primeval.
Where did you see the word all eyes flooded, Moskal?
So-called tabya your mother when she wanted to tell you that something pleasant.And these are the words of his mother "" "You stupid miserable creature." "" ".You etched in my memory.Is that correct?
Rare earth bear assholes Even the German-Ukrainian documents and newsreels for them is not a fact. Although eye-ssy in all God's dew! Fascist communist is fantastic, Hitler somersaults in his grave! 80,000 Ukrainian essesovtsev-where one Baltic. There is no evidence to support the war against the Germans OUN. Civilians Bandera coffin over 300,000. Already forgotten about it? No heroes fascist bastards. 
delirium katsapsky zakazuha left 
With all of our views do not coincide and sympathies, one thing is certain-the guy is sick and needs to be treated))))
During their stay in Berlin, started a number of meetings with representatives of the various departments in which Bandera persistently claimed that without their help the German army can not defeat Muscovy. Gone multiple streams of messages, explanations, dispatches, the "Declaration" and "memoranda" in the name of Hitler, Ribbentrop, Rosenberg and other Fuhrers Nazi Germany, in which they then justified, then seek the assistance and support.
Nazi-like, too, with the torches were in 1939 
The longer bidets in the Kremlin gang zhidoputina-the more I will love Bandera!
Lubo!
assholes .. it your fathers and mothers destroyed ...
I am against nationalism as you. Russia simply has to be a strong country and lead a more strict policy not to throw their own Russian in the Baltic where the way is double for Russian passport but not like a full citizen in Nazi Germany.And any attempt to push destroy it from within. 
Ukrainians quite ebnulis. Need to stick together against the West, and garbage they create. Admire proplachennymi.
Eat, dude babosov heated on the same as now otsoskah)))) I repeat someone said in our time ...)))
"Heil Hitler!"Here fl is the secret essence of the nationalists who consider themselves Ukrainians.Their lives are miserable and one-dimensional. After the closure of hundreds of years nezalezhnosti companies, including such giants as Lviv plant electron LIAZ, and hundreds of others, without any prospects at home or in Europe, the meaning of their lives, they are looking for in the search for an external enemy.These dregs of humanity are weak, but dangerous his deep, pathological hatred of the Russian, Poles, Jews, those who are different from them.
You're wrong. I am from Kazakhstan from Almaty. I have a lot of friends of the Kazakhs and no one forces me to learn Kazakh and does not deprive any benefits because I am a citizen of Kazakhstan. Not to be confused with polufashistkimi modes Baltic.
Izzy, as you first? In Heavy pussy small
Listen, stuffed fascist, I'll remind you of the 45th. And the Tribunal will arrange, and better sitting in my zapadenschine and do not go to us, you have nothing to do with us in Odessa. And you drive on 409.5 g - too small, it is better to sit and pray cache and taken on Bender.
Ukraїnі glory!Glory to the Heroes!Natsії glory!
UEBKI KREMLIN!!!!
WORDS OF TVOЇH zrazy SEE PFM VI MOSKALІ PRIVIKLI ZAYMATISYA, A HERO Bandera YAKY Show DE YOU NAVOLOCHІ MOSKALSKІY MІSTSE .......
Russia taxis, crest sucks)))))
CE TI Obey GORІTI IN HELL
This film should look knowing information from other sources to supplement full picture and allows you to separate the truth from here pokazonoy lightweight Soviet propaganda. Very casually mentioned Polish concentration camp "with cruelty" for the Ukrainian political prisoners, the killing of Soviet diplomat in response to the famine in the eastern Ukraine, killing the Polish Minister of the Interior, who was very zhostko policy Polonization and redoing Ukrainians in Polish.
Do not tell a woman's genitals without that it's funny.What is this state which is not only help my dinghy and wiped his feet on this state.In the place where they should pass laws take in the face.How are you different from the same Arabs with their "revolution."
Well, of course, no animals live! And "daunetskim cattle" I did not call. But here in about a crime-it is everywhere, but everywhere it is so visible. Again, for my 40 years, I have not seen any of his countrymen-addict (but are still there somewhere, of course.) Now think, how often do you see these people in the city (region)? Easterners come to us and leave here very happy. 
Your non-Russian Muscovites lay a "firewood" Hitler, he set fire to Europe! Then, together attacked Slavic Poland. Muscovite seen non-Slavic soul really wanted Slavic krovushki drink apparently was not enough for them to starvation of millions of Ukrainians slaughtered-rusichej ...Let us pray to God to destroy the current Muscovite empire of evil!
would be sitting in their Zion, and not blather: Bandera and Zionists shot Soviet Jews at Babi Yar
You do not understand - he is now free, and only now really went on the warpath, and the Zionists knew it and so spent a lot of money to prevent him to power but lost and now they KHAN
Yusch - not quite dead dog!
and left a gift Putin!
babtsya made my b word you zїsti svoї
expect such marches in Russia after a while!! Glory to Ukraine!!
Kazayoby cons, but silent, hehe))
Especially for russssskih Russian. PUBLICITY. Lodges. Eversion FACTS.
A isho Ivo banderskie lads children gvazdyami nailed to trees. Real shit Hera your Bandera. Sala him fat!
Th in Ukraine does not have outstanding individuals except Bandera that nationality is not even a Ukrainian and Hungarian - an extremist? lol. It would be better to glorify Taras Bulba.
by the way these guys burned Khatyn in Belarus with all people / characters fucking / as the Germans say rest / and bring grief to his people assholes - especially bluntly ideological weapons / Bandera in this glorious clip of all time / easiest way to great estate, it is a blunt remove competitor with religion or nationalism! 
Zdohnіt Poles poganі
Poland certainly in terms of democracy is to come, but you can be sure - Putin's autocratic regime is not much left! Common sense wins, Russia clearly goes to the European way! And then it will become a superpower in the present! With rich resources, talented people, spiritual culture, Orthodoxy - Russia will be ahead of the world!
That was you in the ass, shit saw my nose poking. Teach their children.
Glory to heroes!
You're just stupid? Almost all the missiles that are in service in Russia have made in Dnepropetrovsk UMZ. And now with the start of Baikonur Ukrainian launch vehicles, and that's what makes it really Russia laughter and only one Phobos-Grunt is worth something! Well parashnik, you did laugh, got fingers ass myself :)))))))))))
... For Russian heroes: Nevsky, Don, Pozharsky, Susanin, Ushakov, Suvorov, Kutozov, Zhukov and many others, not a Nazi-fascist scum!!
As a person who collaborated with the Nazis can be the hero of my homeland. I do not understand.
Ha ha ha .. I still like Jerusalem - should take it to us (we trace him better), and I've been to Mecca zaglyadyvayu - still the main place for the Muslims - must pick up and give OUR Muslims, and even Alaska and back. oh .. we have so much to do! Well, nothing - we can handle ..
I'm sorry but the Cyrillic for me is very strange, I do not climb on a visit sosvoimi rules as home to the '14 was for my great-grandfather in another country. Izvenyayus but I have enough knowledge of Spanish and conversational French and German, and the study of the Russian language without a teacher is difficult. In Germany, live well, live well everywhere where we do not. 
So you are disabled you will not understand.Oh I'm sorry EBA Walid.
Nationalistic mess in one word! Ukrainians Poles expelled, then Poles Khokhlov, and went into the woods with the partisans fought against the Germans, and then again for the Germans against the Soviets ... filth in one word!
crest - is Zaporizhia Cossack, the rest of East-Ukrainian Ukraine Cherkasy, west of modern Ukraine former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Austro-vengriyakov and the rest of the Catholic Shushary. And there would be no Ukrainians (Zaporozhye Cossacks) would not be Russia in its modern borders, the Cossacks defined territory and borders of the state.
All Muscovites look "Russian divisions S S. www. Voen vi deo. R u"
STUPID? - Jews are often narrow-minded people .. read through a couple of times - can find inspiration .., I have no more interesting zhidomutant - Re-read this
, Erm, yes you, ugrofin, otmongolenny at all))), the mother of cities ugrofinskih))  
Hanged himself kotsap, stinky!
vaschi boys and chmoshniki tyagnebok soon bude vygribat asshole
I find it hard to understand the meaning of your post because of spelling errors, even though I am not a native Russian language, for the so-called I- "Banderovets" - I write more wisely ;))) I will answer very succinctly-Baltic rebuilt themselves Balts. Without membership in the Soviet Union, they would have done it much better, definitely! Yes, Germany drinking beer :))) But she lives better (much better) Russia! It can guzzle beer kilotons, but it is better off! And yet, except for Russian and Ukrainian. I speak also English. And you?"
1.UPA, it is not above the "Russian" units Germans fought on two fronts for the freedom and independence Ukrainy.2.SS "Galicia" battalions "Nachtigall" and "Roland": 1) The UPA does not apply, and 2) all of the deadly sins, which you attributed to them, they did not do, because they were fighting units in the special forces division Wehrmacht "Brandenburg 800".Lish "Galicia" conducted combat operations at the end of the war, and before that guarded the camp and served as a police force.
funny to read the speech of fascist morons. In a word - Nazi henchmen and their descendants should burn with a hot iron that happens to all historical laws.
You insult the dignity of Galicia - so do all Russian or just you?
Skinok
YOUR ensign Ganebny I. ZMOCHENY in POLSKІY NEVINNІY KROVІ. SHELTER ZHІNOK, DІTEY NEMOVLYAT.VI NOT SHANUЄTE GEROЇV Til'ky VOЄNNIH ZLOCHINTSІV.Pid COURT BANDITІV W UPA. Got KOZHEN RIGHT VIZNANNYA SVOЄЇ RELІGІЇ, KULTIVUVANNYA SVOЄЇ TRADITSІЇ ALE Mauger NOT TO LEAD TO VIKONANNYA ETNІCHNIH shelled SO THAT YAK ON Bulo WOLYNIU ² in Lviv. Shame BANDYTOM W UPA!! JA NASRAJU NA TWOJU MOHILU TY PEDALE!!!!
Russia would not voluntarily release the Ukraine. She did not want the independence of Ukraine. Bandera fought for the independence of Ukraine from Russia and the alliance with the Germans was a temporary measure to fight bolshiviki. In 1941, Bandera and Stetsko announced the creation of the Western Ukraine independent Ukrainian state, for which they were arrested by the Nazis Bandera first sat in prison in Krakow, then Zaksenkaus concentration camp from 1943 to 1944. Bandera dream come true, we live in an independent Ukraine.
How is it that many consider Bandera a hero of the struggle for independence?Yes, because he is a hero!
And you know what for, what happened? 
he is shit! He does not care about the rest!so is the rest of the ONT is.Smelly nedobitok ...
It's your mom zoofilka such fables told you before incest?Fuuuuuuuuu, well, you're wrong Muscovites.
Lviv authorities should shoot.
By the way, Simon - it is a "Ukrainian" name ...
Bandera actually hated the Jews here ;-) I just touches such "Gramat" on both sides!
London is certainly a benchmark for all of humanity.?. these fag point tykatsya.lish will be against Russia bullshit .. and what England.?they had at the time was a fascist Mosley theirs mestnyy.tak that the example is not very horoshiy.po what you bagdana Khmelnitsky not remember?. now he is just fighting for Ukraine.
Under Lenin shoot 1.5 million people a year. Under Stalin 1 million annually (from 1935 to 1941 - the data provided the MGB in 1956). How much better is these same people have plagued the Communist secret police ... The entire history of the Soviet Union was on the same path: to destroy the BEST and leave vermin and carrion ... The number fell during the years of the Bolsheviks, was podavlyayuschimyuA you always murderers of their relatives, friends lizhish feet?
Bandera spent the war in a German concentration camp, so your comments about the fact that Bandera on that or influence, especially on the "World Order" - is a complete idiot.
Katyn near Smolensk, but not in Belarus (teach geography) and killed a staff of Polish officers by the police, not the elderly and children as Bandera in Belarus.And do not be blah about undercover NKVD.Of all people and country people could tell the NKVD from the western Ukrainian. Most of the villages were burned and not the Germans and Balts Bandera. Long live Belarus.  
Vlasov and the hero no one thinks the same as Hitler's Ass Kissing Guy Bandera, Shukhevych Gandon and others!
The mouth of the Nazis took, and stayed ... :)
And the murder of hundreds of Jews headed Bandera in Lviv, refers to the commies or smelly Muscovites.?? 
Suchenyshy minors!My grandfather died in World War II (missing) when released app. Ukraine.
Our grandfathers fought with the Germans, so you are stupid ass like this one with the German flag on the shoulder, with Hitler hairdo running and carrying some garbage.On a question about the characters Mr. moron did not answer.On a question about the mask, too, said he did not understand that.You would be going to work better damn well not doing any garbage, the more that you do not decide to resolve all different people!You clowns are pulled over for masquerade costumes and I am glad that you have there a herd gathered!Nerds!
Shame on Ukraine as a state, the fascists of the fetus.
Horror, I did not know that sales is a monument! Horror still want to take in the EU and NATO, while evrotupitsy already took one fascist country, Estonia. I think soon the whole gang again sobiretsya, but it will pechalkoy for them, because we can just press the red button ... IRS Poplar fluff! uhuhahahahahah! ((\+\d )?
Ahah, Banderlog not a hero 8) Monument in Lviv is still guarded by the police? At 90-91, the two monuments rushed to cheer. Good character, which has monuments to guard their citizens 8) And as Europe simply "howled with delight," the actions of Western savages!
What would you do drop dead geeks Judeo-hahlyatskie, uebische ukroblyadskoe. Western Ukraine - a Polish land. Central, South and East - RUSSIAN LAND. A ukroblyadi - it occupiers who should be cut. 
Think of something else: Glory of the nation! Gate of death!
1.What kind of "host" are you talking about?2.That's what I'm saying.You, and your Russian chauvinists six Ukrainian want to take away from Ukraine's independence and statehood.If anyone whom and sponsors, the Kremlin and Ukrainophobes moskofilov.3.Not a "Russophobe" and "moskofobskie" Russ is not to blame, the ram.A more correct "movement Ukrainophile conscious Ukrainians" .4.What, what, what are you talking about fascism?You're a bitch and Kremlin all fascists, because fascism and chauvinism that you are guided, almost =.
No You Think for lip service. what does full of Pavelic. OMG. who took this blizzard?!
MMDA, the story you are truant. 
Benderasty ... - is muzzled assholes who yell "JMO-E-Ert Muscovites" and pray to prick ...) ... basically benderastiya swept western outskirts ...
Glory to the heroes!
And the data from the IMF (nominal GDP per capita) is the special selection for the infamous traitors to outlying psevdostanovList of countries by GDP (nominal) per capita, International Monetary Fund 2012:47. Russia-13765 $ 49. Latvia - $ 13,316 53. Lithuania-12873 $ 56. Poland-12302 $ 89. Angola - 5681 $ 91. Namibia 5635 $ 103. Ukraine (PSEVDOSTAN) - 3971 $ 112. Georgia (PSEVDOSTAN) - $ 3514
Hitler took the oath, where not a word about Ukraine nebylo the complete submission to Hitler, so what's the champion of Ukraine?
2002-2013 years «The Washington Times», 2012 «Russian "new oligarchs literally plundered the country, with an estimated they taken abroad to 220 billion dollars, buying villas on the French Riviera or opening numbered accounts in offshore areas throughout the world." (Arnaud de Borchgrave. "The Washington Times", 17.01.2012) Vladimir Putin in 2002 "Very often we deceive people ... (Pause) Well, we're not, and the state ... "
Crimea was the occupation of the Ukrainian-TO HIS RUSSIAN!youtube.com / watch?v = 5eJ4mh2WC5 <wbr>-U
first, we have destroyed the metropolis of Moscow, at the beginning we simply cut off the tentacles Moscow hydra that rocked the capital of Ukraine in Moscow, but we now have in Ukraine's oligarchs were Jews (descendants of the Bolsheviks), which are based on the world Jewish domination and the remnants of the KGB and the repressive machine by Russian invaders that have crept into Ukraine in the Soviet Union. Unable to immediately destroy that for centuries created. We did not go on the Chechen scenario when Russian just started to cut, we have a different way
Sources have? History is written by the winners - do not forget my friend ..  And they brainwashed! 
Ukraїnі glory!
But NEHЄRO ЇHATI to Lviv SRANІ MOSKALІ, PRIЇHALI PROVOKUVATI PEOPLE author himself Biddle, PUBLICITY KOMUNІSTICHNOЇ PARTІЇ
Kuban and Stavropol - the lands of Ukraine, which currently ottorgnuli Russian Bolsheviks (or just Jews) in 1919. Type in Google - "Crimson Clean" or "Kuban People's Republic" and convince yourself.
"And valor of the Red Army reached with vodka and detachments" - Well, this is another vyser Russophobic. One vodka and detachments simply could not have won the war! Russian soldiers defending their land from the Nazis exterminated fascist. infection. And depressed. most were not Communists! Yes, even those who had believed in the ideals kommunnistich., To building protsvetayusch. Their misfortune of society and the tragedy is that the idea was not feasible. 
@ Bresku CORRECT Metter Who SLELAL. Fascists ONLY REASON AND NEED unleashed their vile atrocities did not run same for the NKVD, yet the teeth get. LET'S INNOCENT unarmed ON CHILDREN AND WOMEN tortured
You're not told about the positive changes in the lands where "squeezed out" of the Russian. I'm not a fan of the Soviet era, but all the hallmarks kaklyandiya was created just then. defense industry, aerospace, automotive, etc. During nezalezhnosti not done anything like you to focus not accept such facts. Examples of life worse than animals, too, are not visible, only an empty trepotnya. Russian order of magnitude more frequently going abroad than kakly. In Kiev closed blood processing center, in favor of buying overseas components.
Bender is a bandit. From school graduate vzashey drive kicks on the street, missing and corrupt morons skins shaft. Smart and the right people and a little sorry for is getting smaller.
You know what I will say that many Germans still believe that Ukraine is an area in Russia, that's it, and forget about the "Great Ukraine" as his dream, you do not need to none, and serve in a big game like card number 6, it is obvious that your country is split into two parts, and it has already begun one-half of the predominantly Russian-speaking would go back in time to Russia and the other will be at the mercy of the Poles and Romanians and you're dissatisfied with the climb back to the forest in their dugout.
as they could offer at the meeting Nemtsov if Bandera then put in a concentration camp? people are not too lazy to read the original text at a meeting OUN! what is said here - lies!
In the struggle to establish and set up their own state.All right. And Stalin himself was a terrorist and blowing up innocent people revolution, looting collectors.
GLORY NATSІЇ!! GLORY ONU UPA!!DEATH MOSKOVSCHINІ!!
And I say that, you moron! I am against the Nazis (Hitler, Goebbels, etc.) and their supporters (Bandera, Vlasov, etc.)!
on the German side fought Russian Liberation Army General Vlasov, 1st Russian and 2nd Russian SS Division, the 15th SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, who submitted himself to Herman Goering, SS Regiment "Varyag" and "Desna"
I'm a bastard katsapni ssuschschey boiling here :))))))) thanks Armenian radio for such a Christmas gift :))))
Will hurt you when to make you pay for your dead Banderlog RUSSIAN soldiers in Chechnya - ANSWER FOR EACH IN FULL!
Opposition knows what not to choose. and if he does not need manipulation --- that he would catch. and we have seen how he caught and who is thrown out of the observers. 
Without the help of foreign forces of Britain, France, Ukraine, Belarus, Russia itself would be nothing I could not. Furthermore the second world war to a large extent on the tacit agreement between Hitler and Stalin, including the Covenant Rebentropa - Molotov in which Stalin and Hitler divided the Europe. Russia is not much resented the military when Hitler went to Poland. Stalin warned of a possible attack by Nazi Germany in 1935 to confirm your radiogram Sorge.
delirium
That is characterized by: Kiev resisted and was destroyed Matkva surrendered and paid tribute to nearly 250 years. And did very well ugrofiny felt as district. Nevsky, Kalita, not climbs from Khan - Saints ROC. Nevsky - Name Roissi, Order of Nevsky. Circus! Well, you know ;)))) 
put like. but once Belarusan Smolensk in the main square dance lezginka, marking some kind holiday "unity." the choice is simple - nationalism or you will cut off my head and pour youtube video
Long live the real heroes of Ukraine: Bogdan Staszewski and Pavel Sudoplatov!
Bandera talk on the wild mix of Ukrainian and Polish and partly rural dialect (sometimes on a regular surzhik) that no one but them can not understand, but it sounds like this whole thing is very funny even for the Ukrainians, good volodiyuchih movoyu.  Vidstali nazavzhdi.
stupid notorious clown nothing interesting to do ... blank: (
... Who told you that in Russia thrown "do their own domestic problems?" ... Here's a video plot structure - "Banderovets fled to Russia" - a very successful at ... Understand at last, and tell your ghoul, that Russia will always care about what her neighbors are sick ... You do not would be delighted if you have a wall of a neighbor living with mental disorders and manic zeal you want to ...
But it's true .. :) Kuleshovka, union, ss Galicia - these are facts, not friends or plisudka passionately with Hitler, when the Czech Republic than a half? CFS thing controversial, like everything else in history, Galicia was good for the Austrians, but they quickly ran out.
I like not care what my father will be there in the first place to think about their priests
Ukrainians there since there was a Kievan Rus in the IX century. In the period of greatest prosperity Kiev Russia occupied the territory from the Taman Peninsula in the south, the Dniester and the upper Vistula River in the west to the upper reaches of the Northern Dvina River in the north. By the middle of XII century entered into a state of political fragmentation. Up until the Mongol invasion (1237-1240) formally Kiev continued to be considered the top table of Russia, and Kiev principality remained in the collective ownership of the Russian princes.
You're going to suck)) gave birth to you from swine))) fag you, not Russian, and your grandfather takoyzhe fag and a father, and she does not neotets pig which you create one, wait)) will do it for what you have given birth, that sucked! !!!! thank ss galychyna!!!
Peeing bitch whips
tear Katsap and falshivіm veterans. :) priezdzhay. you how kAzlamordomu chUchAlu. queue tear.
What are you, Asian, more can you say? Fie on you!
Glory Ukraїnі
not like slaves, they would love him otnyamali as now amerikosy suck))))))))))))))))))))))))) <wbr> -)))) ))))))))))
What do you remember about the atrocities of the NKVD?
Yes, the Hero. Definitely.
What do I talk to a fascist and asshole: you go to the Urals, will snow on pole wear. If you are lucky you will be catching ass tomahawks over Syria for its bloody atonement of sins
My dear, I am a Soviet officer. He studied in Kiev (Kwok), though you know about it? I, of course, not 100, just recently appeared grandchildren. And I've seen a lot. And the blood, too. So you finish with your nasty nationalism. God forbid such an experience that I have seen in Fergana, Karabakh, Yugoslavia. 
Natsyskoe march glory Ukrainian Hitler!
Any nationalism, which is directed against Russia, and focuses on UWB - this shit. 
Chock, sitting in his Vedin, here and sit, have you got a life, then his own. Why would you come into someone else's house, especially the men, we really like what he figure! Your monkey fought against the federal forces, you could not become independent - silently envious!
Well, why not Jewish?
Ukrainians is not even the people-not the nation, they are brain washed Poles.
Yeah, all of his people thought ...Question: The people of Ukraine and its people?Further disruption to the mat ....You may give the hero Yushchenko and scho ...He had no banditstva, fought with klyatymi Muscovites .. ykrainets1, you're not the first you're the last, taking into materiel ..Success
to the point
Jew Kolomoisky financing natsianalisticheskuyu Freedom Party thus preparing the ground for the "Arab Spring" in Ukraine .. Split along religious lines as little chance of Muslims nichtozhnomalo .. And here is a language with no problems .. The division of Ukraine into two camps - ruskoyazychnyh Storonkov integration with Russia and Ukrainian storonik U.S. and NATO Jewish globalists can be plunge the country into chaos and civil war.The main thing to sow enmity and hatred, and of course the shed blood
Look what happened to you CHECHENTSY.YA TODAY Odes. To shine.
Turkey and Egypt is not a foreign country?
They said to the other: "These" brothers "have - enemies do not." So let's turn our quiet, peaceful assholes to each other and live like that alone.
I live on the land Tavriysky province of the Russian Empire, the land property of Ukraine, only 20 years old, because we own the land - Russian. So there is nothing to teach us here. You better instructive wife to cook soup
but what is remarkable - in debates against the Muscovites hahlov, pussy realized Toko Muscovites. well, ie there pizdesh because of ignorance of the history and conjecture is not true on both sides - it shkolota garbage ripped apart. But recognize pussy Toko moskali.eto with cocks it Hungarian?or are you just dalbaeb who read on Wikipedia that he was born on the territory avstrovengrii, and not because of stupidity vkurse that the part of Ukraine was avstrovengriey had occupied?
in the back? )) Splashed in the face with his poison))) dog dog's death!Ukraine joined the Soviet Union voluntarily! and then in the 39th Galicia is annexed to Ukraine, it would be better not to join ibo.skolko wolves do not feed, and he's one dick to the forest!Well, in Belarus Banderlog were in deep behind German lines, you know moron? They bitch burned civilians by Russian troops there was no smell! so Bandera not heroes, but Polače!katsapiv the reservation))) Galicia Poles give back! ))
Do not tell a woman's genitals without that it's funny.What is this state which is not only help my dinghy and wiped his feet on this state.In the place where they should pass laws take in the face.How are you different from the same Arabs with their "revolution."
And you, as an expert on the history of Western Ukraine, probably know, sho no time, this area was inhabited by Ruthenians, but that's not the problem, they did not know if you live in Ukraine is Ukrainian nationality, and they came up with the Ruthenians klyati Muscovites. And Austria-Hungary, which included the West.Yk., They do not svidomym, lucidly explained in Talergofe and Terezin and some have come to realize: Shaw won "schirі ukraїntsі" and considered it their duty to "try on" the Austro-bratіv vengrіv, to carry the good news of the rest of Ukraine, about klyatіh Moskal ... 
Die ukroblyadskaya scum, you will soon answer for everything, for every dead Russian, for each meter of occupied our land. We will wash your blood, and you're scum lick our boots. If only your rotten and degraded pseudo-state does not fall apart before we get to you, scum. 
And what killed our gerrroy?!
you - uneducated, John, Kiev - is the center of Ukraine)) The more that you know that Ukrainian nationalism was born in the East of Ukraine - Dontsov (Melitopol) Mikhnovsky (Kharkov))))
Chairman of the Judenrat was the lawyer Josef Parnas. During the summer of 1941 was looted Jewish property, burned synagogues and the Jews themselves sent to forced labor.In the winter of 1941-1942, the Nazis began shipping Jews from the Lvov ghetto to the camps. For the month of March 1942 were taken to Belzec 15 000. Most of them were old and religious men, women, children. Officially it is called the "action against anti-social elements."
But for all officials (Dorval to trough) they should not be called "rulers" and see them as what they are: the former communists, bankers, Young Communists, bandits or kegebisty. Remember - that power is always looking for more power and if not kept within the status quo, they will quickly become lords and treat ostalnymi as their slaves. because you can not keep within the law those who do write laws! 
Cattle coming to the city of Donetsk and Russia with their shovels and trikolornymi rags and provoke people.
What a muddy zhilovskaya prpaganda.Constantly refers to crimes against the Jews of Lviv, except this mold that did not kill anyone! Bandera executed many dissidents and Ukrainians, Gypsies and Hungarians, and Poles, but we only heard one whine about "poor little" zhidyatah!!!The same pattern occurs at the dedication theme Babi Yar. Is that an order of the Jewish clique, how bad was always persecuted herd narodtsem??
Bandera turn around and Alga. 
is liquid your Dedkov pochikal. sucked, kaklozhopy?
Tse all propoganda MOSKALІV GLORY UKRAІNІ TA BANDERІ SHUHEVІCHU
Raisi glory! Raisyan vperde!
I am a PhD in history and live in Lviv. Better you read history not Soviet, UKRAINIAN, who wrote BLOOD GUERRILLA LIBERATION MOVEMENT AND WHAT UZNAESH UPA. Receive a pass and read to the main archive SBU DOCUMENTS stamped PSB SECRET THAT are not published on the Internet. IF I am a moron, you motherfuckers.
, Of the "father". you Muscovite kotsabov hate the Russians. Just hate it. As the plague cling to the peoples of Russia, robbed and suck all the resources, instead engrafted bestial life. What to speak of the lions? ))) 
This is for you to tell your mother, as you have been asleep?
Thanks for the comment. How many people, so many opinions. And everyone is entitled to his. And not all of Lvov agree with some of them.)))
Hitler led Germany into adBandera also fought for independence UkrainyChto you do not like in Bandera?He also did not mention Russian untermenshn, the UPA was the Jews were the main body of doctors, netTebe just do not like the fact that Ukraine is independent
Not surprising.Yusch economy instead of always doing all garbage.
Give Russian Caucasus Turks and allow the Turks to join, including the territory of Central Asia and Kazakhstan! Then the problems in the Caucasus will decide for themselves!And Turan wolf led by Turkey will do that, you're with your dermokratami could not decide for ages!
The western and eastern Ukraine for a long time were shattered. They were not even able to combine outstanding hetmans Skoropadsky and Mazepa. Eastern Ukraine was largely populated by Russian and national fonts and gravitated toward Russia, while Western Ukraine has been focused on Europe to the West.
Fascism grew out of philosophical doctrines, asserting the primacy of the state over the individual. Originated in Italy in 1920, took shape in the writings of Mussolini. Became widespread in Europe and North America. In Norway, Italy, Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia and Romania, the Nazis came to power. That is, in the Euro Union.
Your comment purely moskalsky. That's why you do not like, you animals ... 
While from a "hill" you are paid - will gather. According to the present ideological idiots few others just like money ...
do not you understand!
We Ukrainians - not a nation, a blood brother RUSSIA, Bandera - the nation with Nazi Germany, the nation, so to speak ARTIFICIAL
You yourself have a cock in my life creature kike!
A Soviet power was simply gracious! All Ukrainians are far before the UPA Holodomor tortured!
Very weighty proof))) If that Tyutchev, Saltykov, Bulgakov, Turgenev Tatar family and all the students know it)
Bandera you cho so stupid! Germans and after you have used would have killed! Dull Ukrainians ... It's all because of that we also love bacon?
MOSCOW garbage!In Western Ukraine were not sickly Muscovites in their dirty snout Kremlin - that howl so far ...!
And sings ego Germans konslager otpraveli?
Ukrainians in Canada MIGRATE began in the 17th century, and the Ukrainian language there much longer. 
...... It is true that courts have repeatedly rejected this "spam". Final authority for obzhalovateley became Vasu. But in this Court to the arguments of nationalists did not heed, leaving the complaint without consideration, and the decision of Donetsk courts - no change.
Mr. Che for Ukrainians, where they came from?
Now turn to blunt the Russian-speaking (but not the logical thinking Russians)! Your stupid zhidovskoe management has made a big mistake, killing With despicable murder Bandera so it is made from Bandera a national hero.
You see, in Russian in Ukraine says not even half of the population, much less consider it their native language.Then as no one ever uschimlyal Russian language and Russian!At home I speak two languages.To speak in Russian does not need a law.It is a question of national identity and state, you know?Jaz <wbr>-wk, is the soul of the people, the people with no language-not the people.These are the words of one of the great Ukrainian writer. "Without chauvinism and no strong state."-A state with no language at all.Ukraine is not Russia.
Benderovtsy ebanulis Th you do? Jews see you thoroughly brainwashed! Critical thinking you do not completely?Judeo-Masonic critters want to arrange another genocide Slavic rusam. In Russia imported Cobra to arrange inter-ethnic civilian massacre in Serbia. In Ukraine, the Jews want to pit western Ukraine to the east, to the rivers of blood shed in the civil war that plunged the country into the stone age.Slavs unite Russia and clean the filth from the jew!
Well, you have not lived at the time. My grandfather recalled Stalin's time, as the best in life. He was forced to go to Siberia from Kirovohrad, but he said that he was impressed by the construction of the plants, the scale of production, the level of education of the population. State they set up personal. There was a mighty power.  
From the report of the intelligence, the SS 30/06/1943: "The attacks on German troops UPA units - a rarity, did not have a single (!) case where the injured have been serving the German police and Wehrmacht ... There have been cases where they deliberately spared the life of the Germans. " 
oyy .. well about the "dictatorship of the Nazis" is generally a heresy! in itself is not only the UPA etnichesskie were harboring!
Maybe it's your zombie :)
People had to fight for an independent Ukraine, not the USSR
Hebrews is that you say? They have all the parties in the Knesset nationalist)))) I fool you))) I'm sorry like a person in the age, thought it wise that you say)))
Sweep from lands Little dirty Galician biodegradable waste, due to a misunderstanding pardoned Stalin.
to Ukraine attacked the Russian Bolsheviks in 1917, the Germans invaded in 1941, so for us, the Ukrainians, the Germans that the Russian - is okkupnty we, Ukrainians are divided okkupntov into "good" or "bad." With the Germans understood our grandparents, and with Russian razberaemsya now we are gradually squeezing everything Russian from Ukraine to complete cleansing of our land from the Russian Horde navolochi that crawl, to us, at the USSR. 
... conduct a survey on another "hero" - Chikatily, for in order to put up a monument ... (((... because he also hated the Muscovites and destroyed the Russian people, chewing their meat ... (
@ ZZzFr0mHeLLzZz, and what you deleted my comment? You give a link to Odessa? Catch it: watch?v = rByo_crdz7U & feature = em <wbr>-ail & email = comment_reply_receiv <wbr>-ed ^ ^ ^ there are almost all domestic, they are even on the move do not speak, but it is secondary. Primarily, they are all aware of themselves as Ukrainians, and not part of a miserable lapotnoy Chukhnov and Jews. Nationalism has already won in Kiev and Lviv, Odessa is now in order, and then the Crimea will be our ideology. It is only a matter of time. 
Go substitution vuyko. Live as such zaprodantsy in our land! My ass and pussy to Hutsuls. Judas.
We do not "set off" - we've seen a lot and know a lot. A RUSSIAN RUSSIAN can not consider a foreign country - you clear and simple as a broom NOT YOU RUSSIAN
Bendery fag!
Oh, yeah ... we remember the 15th SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, brilliantly fought against the Soviets, the real heroes - as well as the SS soldiers "Galicia" so that you have a worthy ancestors rznik85 - Proud imia we take pride in our geroyamislava Ukraine.
but what there is a danger of them - no more than what some of the Tajiks with brooms - they just pussy and could in the worst case of the woods in the back and shoot some more no dick, they are dangerous for the Russian in Ukraine - we need to protect them from the Russian - pick up Eastern Ukraine and Crimea - and this is a fine blyadvo - litter the west and no more
Ukrainian to demolish the myth that cattle called "Ukrainians" disappeared
Aune and SS battalion Nachtigall June 30, 1941 hosted a huge massacre of Jews in Lviv.
Dear, look first at your opponent is still active (Ravens) and immediately understand everything.He's schizophrenic, crazy fanatic, stupid distort historical veils, to argue with him, "casting pearls before swine."Akin to the marketplace, it tradeswoman otgavkaetsya 10 like you.I crossed paths with him for shit-shaft, facts-0.For Ukrainians properly noticed (shame, I did the same with Ukraine) unites, and then betrayed the different forces.And with Poland against the Ottomans went * (the end you know), and the Swedes were friends.
To unite the country need to learn one language to professionals from all parts of the state to understand each other ... so they can talk, and if you, with your chicken brain do not know - go fuck in the same ranks with the same as you ohuevshimi pochetatelyami Bandera Hitler :) And in this country - you ushlepok pizdyaschy Estonian just can not live:-D
What Kazan?I'm from Moscow, the mother of Russian cities!And you're just a schmuck!Call Katsap those in whose language you're here writing ... so it's time to wet your dog from Nazi Bandera farm!Father served in Lviv and said that you respect the nits and Westerners can not!You're a traitor, that's all
Torchlight procession of German money in birthday fascist Bandera.
What does it say in the west or in the east of Ukraine has a negligible value. Ukraine herbivore state, even chews grass, grows hair cut and who will not solve Ukraine. In general, in a funny state Ukrainians get a talented still narodec (comedian on humorist). At such a state, even angry hilarious fails for any reason (as a child)
You better nits down and out - rename the street Dudayev! Name their streets after Russia's enemies - not good! He has blood on his hands up to the elbows, a mafia leader. Well that was a long khan. Blew up. 
Such stories are mediocre writers Goebbels school composed of one left. This does not mean that war crimes were not. They were, from both sides.But Bandera raised his hatred of Jews, Poles, Russian (in that order) to the rank of national policies.Hitlerite present, as well as his followers .. 
Nicely said, spot on.South Ukraine the same opinion.  All the others just do not know their history.Elementary stories ...
You immediately see the nationalists urainskih ... you have every word Mascali Mascali tfu fucking scum and dregs of the Nazi bender!!He fought for their land? He fought for his skin so God forbid he was hanged or murdered in!!a generation with you completely brain washed garbage bear!Who are you without Russia as a piece of land on the map!under amerekoy sag as before under Hitler sagged Well nothing changes only host your ass ... live with their beliefs eat Snickers!!
"Bandera could not kill ukarintsev because in 1941 he was sitting," Ha ha. Tochnyak hahlyatsky huesosina stupid!
Zhydochku shoot melodromy and glamorous lisp. But an assessment of these events should be given professional historians, researchers!
Ruslanchik Pupsik ... judging by your klikuha you pale blue
Poltava fell, exposing the flank.VOvoynu about, in general, a lot can be told, the cases-sea! So set yourself to the fact that 99% of these is inadequate and do not pay attention to them. Respect to you and uvazhuha!!!
Hohlyatskie Nazis burn you in hell with his Bandera scum, I would have cut out the families
Yes UPA killed many Poles. Like the Home Army killed many Ukrainians.BUT IAN defend his home and his people, while the NKVD carried out reprisals against us.And now if we were attacked - the simple Ukrainian people again would form a rebel army.When you are in Moscow will cut Caucasians, you'll love them much?
hohlyatskie orangutans freaks aspiring
Yes ... no one will punish you here, ride hare climbed as much as you ...You insult my last quote of historical fact, which is available online for general information? Are you insane? Or every mention of the power of the Russian people and its importance in the development of Lbvova you perceive as a personal affront? (Come to Moscow, and tell us in the face "katsap" not popukivay online as sykun minor)
A Alexey271 not pull even trol, even stinky trol Yid Massad - helluva lot of dumb and stupid 
krasche mother putlera banged dwellers bastard krasnozhopogo not spawn!
Yeah
benderovtsy traitors Ukraine parasites smelly never worked only garbage engaged and their Slavic brothers shot! Accomplices of fascism fucking!
I would add: "Bandera-Hegrrrrrroy!<wbr> -! "
Bandar zadrota unfinished, like all stupid galitsai ...
I feel sorry for the Russians! How can you watch this crap! This is as it should not respect their people, that would shoot a duck! Although ... Russian People like it! He likes everything-everything against Ukraine and Ukrainians. It's in your genes. This only shows that we are different. We never were brothers. Where you from, "big brother"? You, of course, closer Wild Asia. 
and who is this guy bender?
What if you and I talk about? Yes, and demagogue bargain.
lying hohlusha lohusha! Monkeys we do not live in Mordovia. Here the French is that they live ... but not a monkey! As for the monkeys, they like somewhere in Angola or Namibia ... or somewhere in the African countries like Congo, which southwest psevdostanchik in 2012 as the 144th time divided by the level of corruption (Transparency-International data for December 2012). What you hohskih animals and congratulations!))) Back to you and the road ... if you have to take a subsidized region of the African Union))))
Suck-dick dog mad ...
Ilienko done!
That's right, while Stalin, Bender "west" was needed ...Khrushchev in gratitude same "west", for the appointment of his Gauleiter USSR added piece of land in Ukraine has ratified the Bretton Woods agreement. and m.dr.Naturally, the best Nikita, no Bandera not have done it, in general, Bandera and "hired" to destabilize the region simultaneously killing Ruthenians, and as needed "quiet" in the region, it "merged", although Bandera and proved "west" their necessity , but ...In 1991, revived the "heroes" OUN
We are up to you of course far.We in Moskvabade better we uraza Fitr celebrate.Where are we up to you about the Europeans.But I warn you that in Europe, in a fashion gay parades.So lubricate point lard useful.Geyropa come to you
That's right. He also did it in France and Yugoslavia on the instructions of the Wehrmacht.
Cal it is in Africa feces, not flatter yourself - you invent all garbage. I fucked your mom's mouth with thy advice, and there is no god at all - Gagarin flew - confirms.
Your abuse indicates unbalance nature (by the way you have not been observed by a psychiatrist? your clinic - manic-depressive psychosis), the desire to see the obvious - the narrow-mindedness and inability to perceive information. Well, what about the German archives - what beautiful words to say, if you are close to them and did not fit? In the future, to communicate with you disdain.
No decent arguments - doebis to spelling. Acting like a schoolboy.
bzdi not - under your FSB crowd dancing - to ask for a job.Zhidostantsy feel that soon all your verblyudostanu kirdyk. BUT FSB in Putin's hands - you there is no way .. do not cry and do not be jealous
The choice was these people to live slaves or die for his country. They chose the latter. It was a war of annihilation, of course, innocent people were killed. But not for us to judge those who gave their lives for the independence of their homeland.
Betrayer of what? He is a citizen of the USSR? By the way, you're not very bright bydlogey, Bandera from 5 July 1941 to the end of September 1944 was sitting in prisons and concentration camps of Nazi Germany. He was released in the hope of cooperation, but he refused ..
Analyzing the audience coming out to support all of the liberals or the Nazis, it is easy to see the wretchedness of these people are showing: in clothes, faces and behavior ... ps I think these people are hurt at school ...
But these areas are not populated by little. I wrote that this particular region Odessa region and I rozsmtatrival this particular area and not the whole of Ukraine. And you gave the example? Do we not take exams in Ukrainian? It seems as if in all areas. And where does France? Our country is almost on par uses two languages ​​for a long time. I'm not saying to give up the Ukrainian one. I say that you can not break this people and forcing half speak Ukrainian absolutely everywhere
Do not waste time, find yourself a Caucasian or Chinese and learn to suck, and it will soon need, and you only know how to lick :)
because they are internationalists. Fought against the Nazis, even Charlie Chaplin's personal enemy of Hitler, and who is Jewish. Any of these people miserable bastard would kill Bandera. Even the Germans despised.
and still.Muscovites are not Slavs ..The entire capital of the Rostov people ..Suzhdal capital Merya people ..Moore Capital Murom people ..Ryazan capital city of the people .. mAAskva Erzya, the capital of the people Moksel ..Where's the Slavs?
Silly Ukrainian nationalists bent on hatred of the Russian, the gasket between the East and West, though called them and took them to this role he was not Russia, not even have a clue what all the issues were resolved at Konigsberg during the meeting with Brezhnev Brandt in 1970.
blunt eastern inhabitants of the former Austro-Hungarian self-identified quickly and have been together western Ukrainians who survived the famine, which took place throughout the Soviet Union, as it should be after the revolution and terrible civil war, and now they are no smarter than the descendants of all blame because their hated Katsap, that the brain is not smart enough to just open the book and read the story)))) South, North, East <wbr>-full-time in the future Ukraine will be the Russian land, and drown in its western zhelche and anger
Ukrainians ... really hard to understand what they were Ukrainians due to be the "commies" Ghost, whom they declared hunting ...) Until 1917, they were Little Russians, and after the Great Russia GevolyutsioneGy divided into conventional republic, and you were named in honor of the sweet cake, which you called your favorite "commies" ..) In other words - the fact that you are now the Ukrainians should be required to commies and drunken Bor ...
Author fіlmu Mlєchіn "Germans given the Ukrainian nationalist hatred of Jews, Poles and Russian, Ukrainian formed police units." Ukraїntsі zlі i poganі and vsі INSHI chistі i neporochnі. Good, and scho todі "uchіtivalі" nіmtsі, if formuvali polіtseyskі chastini in Bіlorusі Rosії chi. 
Why Ukraine and sucks dick from the IMF? What glory no dick ... I do not understand every Ukrainian has today 3000 dollars zhydo bankers, plus Easter 12 Goiskoye babies should be given to the main Kagan Ukrina sedenie so what glory, damn, unfinished morons!))) ))))))))))))<wbr> -)))))))))))))))))))))))))))))) <wbr> -)))))))))) )))) and Bandera, general of the Austro-Hungarian, which on the dick of Ukraine, Austria Hungary? GORI SO SHE IN HELL!!
The Court recognized Yanukovych Bandera fake "heroes."HAM JAC said so TRIAL AND RECOGNIZED>
"Should be treated full schizo" - well, once Tobi lіkarі put takyj dіagnoz, lіkuysya. 
fucking bender ebannye benderovtsy SHAME THE WORLD
... From your words, I realized that your policemen, who were shot at Babi Yar civilians in favor of the Germans, and there are fighters with the mythical NKVD? By the way, the NKVD exists today in your country, then it was just a state of war, and in war to kill the snake - it was not beneath one's dignity, particular that reptile, which fought with the people ... (((
right now from Kusov and write pidorenok. Look out there you kustov.a - suck in dirty Jew .. sorry that caught by surprise
... "After the neighboring streets are populated by people from other countries, the street was renamed the Russian, by occupying it Ruthenians (ethnonym "Ukrainian" local East Slavic population in Galicia began to be taken only from the 1890s.) Street long remained in Lviv center of Orthodoxy and the Ruthenian culture because religious affiliation in the Commonwealth largely meant ethnicity. "
Dickhead - this is your organization UblyudkovPidarasovArmiya!UPA! Dickhead!Bandera hohlyatskaya mrazina, six in Poland and the EU and the U.S., you are cursed mrazina!
kaklovsky your people at the Mongol-Tatars cocks sucked, and you give him your women delivered thousands who fuck horse Golden Horde, because kakluhi terrible and the Mongol-Tatars do not want dryuchit
Scary!!Fuck them to join Russia, even to fuck them over a lifetime.They are used to, before they fuck Poles, Austrians and Hungarians.Do not remember the Ukraine as an independent country 100,200,300,400 years ago.I would place the Poles, Jews and Russian would blow all diplomatic relations with Ukraine.
What is the capital of you swing? The plant was built in Lviv, to create jobs, established defense industry, the production of missiles and so on. Blame for their problems can always be someone, it's very simple, but your deysviya always primitive and predictable. When Rotface came to power, he was also of the Jews, the oligarchs? What he did not do any of the European state of, you dream of? 
Wie, Katsap, head on mіnus, Bandera, Shukhevych - GROЇ URAЇNI!And there is no integer bіytsі priїdte to Lviv, then pogovorіt)))
What nonsense you pierce it. March 7, 1943 in the district Terazha (county Lutsk) Bandera caught in a pasture a few Polish children who zamordovali in the nearby woods. May 5, 1943 in Lipnick (county Kostopol) upovtsy three years Stasik Pavlyuk smashed her head against the wall, holding his legs. 
so someone who, as Mlechin in the Kremlin never suspect can not! More anti-Communist himself hard to imagine! Enough already come out of emotion - so let's rely on the facts, okay? Let's, let's not denigrate anyone or whitewash only because most of the people in your district support, or hate him. Let us teach the history of their own and believe only the facts!
it shows what you are "Russian" .. maybe "amerikanskiy2?
spun ssuka Bender without budueschego and past!
Are you on the hair dryer in bazlaesh avtorete real? And then for the market to answer ((
With Ukraine's dokazatelstvaYak Russia was watch?v = Jk-YvjHbbDAUkrainskaya mov watch?v = ANrmEsnuGGYMif of Ukrainian people watch?v = F-9dvCtHEJc
Well, yes .... how is it that what Ukrainians, have found their hero :)))  
Bandera and the whole gang of cattle-degenerate as a result of the mixing of blood between the Poles, Hungarians, Romanians on a leash in Austria and Germany
third report as much in a year! О How do you "relevant"! Do not dream
Bandera Tse fucking German zradnik.This fucking "patriotic" Bandera himself Ukrainians wetted.Dick with him and Ukrainians.
Note - Your message was full of malice.
Let us begin with a study of the history of "the Arab SS division of Moscow" youtube.com / watch?v = ohp-oQAyEM <wbr>-o
then turned to yak vsі Polschі, whom hammered Bandera?
Ukraine will return to the path of building socialism! Long live the socialist Fatherland! His fame protector of the Workers 'and Peasants' Red Army! Fame fanned, the will is soldered, growing stronger and hello forever. Party of Lenin, the party of Stalin Wise party of Bolsheviks!
Today, the global private equity and his henchmen in Ukraine makes every effort to substitute the class position of nationalist people.
and three Ukrainian Famine pile up to the destruction of Ukrainians .... with guns rastrelivat farms Red Army.Lithuania freed from Lithuanians, Ukrainians from Ukraine, Chechnya, the Chechens loyal otavlyaya only relevant scum gryayuschih hands on maroderstvay, denunciations and zhopolizatelstvh. When Koenig return, lease ended or will roar again when the streets Leoparby progrohochut?
2. Kahan: ... 20 years in the Army. I - Rabbi, Doctor of philosophy and theology, I know human nature, and that the characteristics that make a person a saint - this is very rare! But the count Sheptytsky possessed all the qualities of a saint. "Lying about Sheptytsky - one of many in the film clearly FSBshnom, foment animosity between the Russian and Ukrainian, cynically aimed at splitting Ukraine. History should cover the honest people with no imperial aspirations and bloody KGB FSBshnyh hands.
Brave gay Nazi. Was stupid clown. Ugorayu with him :) and even more with the Ukrainians, students who consider it anything more than a stupid degenerate.
on the German side fought Russian Liberation Army General Vlasov, 1st Russian and 2nd Russian SS Division, the 15th SS Cossack Cavalry Corps, who submitted himself to Herman Goering, SS Regiment "Varyag" and "Desna"
yes --- and I would listen to the declassified Stalin's life - but again, not in the middle. netuti?oh - what a pity. Shaw, you are not the heroes of non-Russian rassekrechivaete.i suddenly - Jewish president - well, not yet rassekretit.kakaya pity.
Galicians - not Ukrainians, our language - not the language Shevchenko - yes it is a big word lyubviPochitay RUSSIAN Wikipedia about Bandera. He was sitting in a concentration camp at nemtsovon was a Polish citizen and not be a traitor communist SSSR.sledovatelno NOT MOGkak he would not want to =)
What is a "smart" Banderlog - "eva Walid" no name, nickname (if you know what that is) and that "Walid" the Arabic word.Since we have long understood the Chechens, and poor, you are not warned. About nationality Putin can say one thing: You're always dumb victim jewish propaganda.Your place in the bucket jew, your work - licking ass .. I'm bored with you, even to say - you do not pull nor enemies nor ... well clowns and all .. so enjoy yourself while
What kind of nonsense? what 'wrong Russian "what" malorosy "? Th you talking about? We are all Slavs: Russian, Ukrainians, Belarusians! you have a separate independent state. who and what you are trying to prove? Revel in their independence, Well you wanted it so. I live in Moscow, then you do no one remembers (I mean in terms of your attacks on the independence of some or ethnic disputes). You are 20 years old already separated and all spend too much time for their independence, but all you Mascali Katsap live the way.
Then the Russian was not. And when you consider that the Ukrainians appeared before Russian ...
Fikalnoe saloheroystvuyuschih procession in honor Stepashko-sniffers (amateur couples tsianita sniff). And why is it vyrusichi? I never! You shareware Cumans originally called Cossacks (Turks). Then you pogremuhu izladili Poles: "Ukrainians". So do not attach themselves to Russia, gophers steppe. Babayka, whore. About, Novodvorskaya: this kike schizophrenic has no relation to the Russian intelligentsia and its lies against Banderki-Hitler lackey, normal people do not take seriously.
a furious delirium can write only if you have paid, or if you're angry impotent
The trouble is that this cattle Galitsai without kith or kin. They never were Ukrainians, and just stole the name in the early 20th century. Gamna entitled "Bandera" in Ukraine has no relation, Ukraine formed before him, and there was a calm, and this bitch just collaborated with the occupiers. And in fact it is not even a village niodnogo grip (neither fascists nor communists), Bega shoblo queers in the woods. Now other queers in their Hero recorded ....
hahahahaha Communists shot, I have a feeling that in Lvov in 1939, well debiiiiiiiiiiily)))))))))))))) <wbr> -))))))))))
stupid obschatsya with Katsap (illiterate) you and you like the Ukrainians - OCCUPIERS, as well as for etc. you can here all you want to bleed foam! you for these countries are the same as murderers and fascists, they are already in the past, and you - the present. Dudayev Street is not your problem Katsap., you "washed-nit", as you wrote, no one dolzhen.lutshe bury Lenin's corpse, the pagans
mute on you Auschwitz-freaks-ssgalichina-suk <wbr>-and
Totally agree with you
Your country - is Lviv and the surrounding area. And everything east of Zhitomir - is the Russian land, which for centuries was a Russian, as long as a couple of nasty ukroblyadi with their Jewish-Bolshevik buddies (who created the Ukraine, Ukraine to the Jewish-Bolshevik revolution did not exist) have not occupied them not spent there forcibly ukrainifikatsiyu. So shut your mouth and sebal here, stupid Banderlog.
The facilitator should give Oscars for acting!)
Bandera .... this ball and run with attached head against ....)))))
pensioners can not go out with the flag of the country of the occupier. one for the Soviet Union did not vote on their own as well as for Stalin later.
Because, when the Bolsheviks came to the whole of Ukraine, it is also well done.
Himself from the Ukraine, but I think Bandera fascist, and Yushchenko for this shoot!
Crimes ... red terror I had known in the last century, when I deliberately refused to join the Communist Youth League, but the merits of the Russian people are undeniable (here I include all nationalities who defended this great country at a terrible price, not sycophants and litter who naively believed that easily rastopchat our country, running through forests in the German underwear) ... but what are you? refugee living in a friendly Bulgar ...?) 
Russian monsters so that acquiring colonies and their okupiruya not let the entire civilized world, but apparently there is a reason, arranged genocide massacred all those who disturb them live prisledovala the Far North navyazavala education against their will, will not and would not accept as a separate Siberia state because of its resources, I do not know why Siberia does not want to secede from the Russian Federation, there is apparently thriving genocide. Russian subhuman (c) Hitler ... Germans ashamed of it ... = (How so?
Horror :) what kind of nonsense? Clearly the creators of history do not know, but stupid lie.
BANDERІ GLORY!SCHO Til'ky KATSAPSKІ zombie TV NOT PRIDUMAYUT, bredyatiny Karpovna.
you are white niggers with amputation brain as promised Trotsky. 100 years ago there was no Ukrainians or Belarusians. all first ukrainizatory ancestors were Jews navadvorskoy your favorite. Russian killed that they were written by Ukrainians. find what they were doing in Talergofe. kike propaganda tastier you the real facts. zombie
Again got by. Hammer to Google: In Russia remained 89,654,325 people live! 2011And enjoy :))))))))))))
Russia is a great power because it is and will be
yes sho go far --- you did not seem to know how the pictures or photos with Stalin removed the people who have fallen out of favor. and it's our age. and Russian churches whitening fresco that depicts the strange story to the Romanovs. pussy Gorbachev - his bribed How can you buy the man who personally owns almost completely across the country?bullshit. he could not live without problems, and not a damn thing to do. only glance whether any conspiracy.
But it's true. Pity you zapadentsy to listen those who pay. and want war. between Russia and Ukraine.Just my father is experienced and knows not the movies he hid a Jewish woman rescued from natsionalistov.a grandmother. and then the woman men kicked.These are good nationalists.At Bandera enemies were all Poles and Russian Jews
What a fake you are hastily concocted, presenting them as evidence of Soviet prisoners of war, some of which, to save their lives, willingly would prove that Stalin was eating fried children for breakfast?
Loch MEAT 
What other people, you Mordovian monkey?
Russia produces a lot of things. Our space ships travel through space, our weapons purchases, even the U.S., we have long bypassed GLONASS GSP. And Ukraine can boast? Well, except for the ability to swipe ahuitelnogo Russian gas quality whores on the panels in Russia and Europe? Ahahahhahahaha
Write to me in Russian, because you know him.
Whether there is no anger? I live in the eastern part of Ukraine. For me, Bandera and his "associates" will never be "heroes of Ukraine" .... I was in Lviv for the last time in 2001. We went to a cafe near w / station. When we asked in Russian, to order, the girl behind the counter pretended not to understand, and the cafe was quiet .. Why is that? Bandera hero for you? Well, fine. Just do not force the country to convince his "heroism" ..
I like it comment "Ukrainian fighters" against the parade of peasants with rakes
SS Galicia and the UPA? film about Bandera, but here have thrown all that is possible.
And I'm not talking about trash, and oh, how they spoke, the ascension of Germany and the German spirit rise.Oh well, by and large I do not care that they have and how I have my own homeland.Answer me a question: what was worth what you've done the Bolsheviks?
then the Ukrainian state will not allow veterans and descendants voevashih commemorate ancestors .. well, it's just a shock, I can see and I can not believe it, because those people too and what their motivation?Why? .. I half-Russian half-Tatar, lived and studied in the Crimea, now living in Russia
Well, read what happened to Bandera when the NKVD came .. it's waiting for you ...
it's time to kill the beasts
America is a country dismembered hands of fools
Bandera, Stalin, Hitler - all! dead they are no more. I honor their grandfathers, who Badal with the Germans for their country. When the enemy - who do not care how nada make common cause, and not allow the enemy to rule in their homeland. I was thinking that if everyone who lives in the south east of Ukraine Watch this video he just rastroitsya. Do not force your hero Bandera people. I am a Ukrainian, I was in a Russian school and I say in Russian, although I know Ukrainian. Think what will happen tomorrow, not in 39. 
Russia - a raw material appendage Ukraine, China and the EU. 80% of the budget of the Russian Federation due to import raw materials.After 5 years run out of gas and finish your Rush :)
Why ..., Iroko has got himself a new bot? ....) ... Well, why, your steppe killed his own brother ... (... there's an interesting thing happened, he was caught on the drive bedalaga hare, and recruited his intelligence and he gladly finished Stepanida ... ( I agree that you are there united robyata - brave heroes ....)))
Hemorrhoids?
... By the way, of those whom you have called Chmyr and the Klitschko brothers, they do not believe benderastov heroes ... (
All of the characters identify themselves with such citizens as Hitler and Bender are hohlofashistami :) ooh and love you :) Ukrainians Jews straight all around you are ready to ascribe them misfortune, especially if they themselves are to blame - it is generally the first thing to throw the Jews:-D voluntarily People "pereprisyagayut" kraaayne rarely :) means you and like you want them to make .. but it is not free :) And what's the difference with your Soso? 
And I feel sorry zapadentsy. shed a lot of blood was in the days bendery.moy Polish father and a child lived in those places.And the people said to the children of the Pole's hut and he teak haty.tam been so if the father is murdered Polish boys and if the mother is killed the girls. and do not bring down everything on Muscovites simply good you do 
who? you, Mordovians unwashed :) not smeshi.balalaeshnik.
Tse fse propohanda MOSKALIFF GLORY UKRAYINI TA BANDERI SHUHEVICHU
No, he did everything pravelno!
Nationalism, the worst manifestation of human nature.
soon all of you guys will put out again in holes pryatatsya wake 
Getting rid of the complexes of a small country.Worse than Hohlyandii in Eastern Europe no one lives.
Rybalko Paul S. Hero's who, and Bandera German flunky!
And you know what for, what happened? 
sweet girl! I do not understand why such a sweet girl ... so not aware of simple issues?can you ask? But what I was thinking when Stalin concluded (Rebentrop-Molotov Pact) peace with Hitler August 23, 1939? And what he was thinking June 21, 1941? ...See ... what is it like? 
Ha, ha!" Ukrainians katsapchegov pleased for the new year ...
And what you have done wrong Katsap? And who is your nationality?
You shit, first hang.
Asian dogs - out from the Ukraine.Chemmodan vakzal scat! Glory to Ukraine - Glory to the Heroes
"Tell me, scho stalіn Hero" This very minute lutshe skozhi and they'll let him Samawah Powys. And I'll tell Toby adno: Uusimaa hohlozhopikam banderlogikam and burn in hell together with Bandera, Hitler and Stalin. In one pot!
gulled poor people worship the Nazi executioner with some ridiculous slogans. delusion of some kind, even right word for it alone emotsii.v '17 Communists continued to break down our great country in favor of Western capitalists, well, you are worthy successors of the case. puppets in the hands of others 
I wish you zlaEto you nasiluete Ukraine, and people will call fashistamiUkrainsky hates always hate you once you get your
The author of the infamous movie, someone Mlechin he bitter enemy of Ukraine ...
about .. uneducated katsap caught))) disclose your drooping eyes))) 3 persons destroyed the USSR - Kravchuk (Ukrainian), Gorbachev (female Ukrainian), Shushkevich (female Ukrainian). If you, on your feeble mind did not know, now you'll know))) Or you idiot, I thought that the Russian could destroy his empire)) What a giraffe you are and how to reach you for a long time, you Katsap well so far and do not understand what happened in 1991. We, Ukrainians, it is good)
Bandera bastards. This action is agony mode Yushchenko! After the victory of Yanukovych whole orange scum is behind bars!
it would be even a dog would not eat it if they were given
he is your idol) you before going to bed at his picture wank
@ Dimaua1, still remember the stone age. Russia, Russia has long been experiencing princely strife.
Glory to the heroes!
"Typically Ukrainian fighters zhivimi no prisoners zdavalis" That's right - it's not NKVDshnye creatures that lay under the fascist mobs at 41 and they spat on the floor Motherland! Personally, for me they are heroes and the film was a primitive blunt propaganda!
Suck your Bandera Russian PRICK in the next world! Skoromy Fuck you all to hell!
Bandera most miserable of lyudishek.seychas sucks dick in hell with Hitler.
He is the same as ours and yours, Banderlog stupid - it was the territory of Russia - Losers.
author of the film is worth remembering about the Russian division of the SS RONA and Lokotskoy republic in Bryansk in 1941 1943's, the size of Belgium.
I repeat for the slow-witted, we were killing Ukrainians alike, that the German occupiers that Russian invaders, so call us, Ukrainians - "Nazis" - this is your uneducated idiot 
"Yakі georgіїvskі lєntochki?" - Just did those ribbons that exempt you from the Poles! Do not be a Russia still would have been part of Poland, opolyachennye!
THANKS RT KATSAPNYU which pleased the new year! :))))))))).
I greet all the participants. You know, I think the Ukrainians have some inferiority complex. Your homeland has produced so many geniuses, and you boast about Bandera and Mazepa.When it comes to Bandera, his betrayer, and it is difficult to call, it was just a gang. Read about what got up his "army" in Masuria in Poland, read about how repression UKRAINIAN exposed population. I am Russian, and I'm absolutely not ashamed to admit that Lenin, Stalin and others
Journalists motherfuckers and they are very far from such a great man as Bandera.He forever remains a hero to true that Ukrainians would not talk about it bought SMI.On not fought for Germany, he fought for a free and independent Ukraine from communism and fascism, and for what it was 20 years ago.
In the Red Army was a lot of motherfuckers and anonistov.
They may believe it and Bandera hero if they so easily.
Well, you do not seem to know how Stalin once all pereprisyagnul. and Nitsche --- who was unharmed, it sho is not complaining. and here voluntarily - then it is bad. no enemy of the people do not anoint --- you can and pokocheryzhitsya. Silly words HOHLOFASHIST difficult to find. it's kind of Jewish folklore. or sho.
... Analysis of mitochondrial DNA, according to which the Russian from Tatars are on the same genetic distance of 30 arbitrary units that separate them from the Finns, but between Ukrainians and Tatars from the city genetic distance of only 10 units. And at the same time from the left-bank Ukraine Ukrainians genetically as close to Russian ...
Yeah yeah Bandera hero as well. Stalin wanted to sell a piece that would have helped Poland regain its sent to hell. Hitler sold his fucked used and died as sabaki mad. The same hero, Doku Umarov is the Caucasus for the western U.S. millionaires sow terror.
Bandera - fuckers, since history lessons at school they dislike 
keep to the times is not relevant in our time in Syria ordered the Jews to America's all done and Syria netak mononational as Ukraine there is a lot of the religious factor in Ukraine religion Christianity and Christianity is not as aggressive as Islam.In OUN was PRINCIPLE construction Ukr another inappropriately and will not give my trust what people did scoop against the Germans Musolini OUN Hitler just smoke to one side the question of where the OUN fought? I KNOW TABACHNIKVIZOR presentation is provided in Ivanovo's true?
Bandera BDSM I do not need. It is better we get to Lemberg and made it positive mass lustration. )))
Th you really think that we still have communism :)
We'll be back on the court and punishment, and the enemies of the Russian language will remember the words!
about stats - hohlobrednaschet white guys on Russian ... hmm. Even if it is called, I have bad news for you. Hohi also in this category. From the point of view of foreigners we all Russian. It is you and your obchitannym svidomitok to our colleagues can have a different view. But on both boundaries of this single powers are well aware that it's Russian population. True to the south-west full of all impurities psheko / Khazar / Jewish / TÜRKSAM / a <wbr>-invent urkonatsiyu vstrovengerskoy dreaming. Many are maintained
Komunyakami FSO
Maybe not right, how many people have so many opinions
History is history. Leave her alone.
"All Russia"? how was it? - Sitting in the Kremlin? - No, he's on the run, and Khodorkovsky in jail and who is in the grave and your VLASTI.Govorit you can have anything - words will not change anything. This is me with Jews can endlessly complain, but you do not want - you WILL NOT DEPEND ON YOUR COUNTRY
"Bandera LUVs geroєm. While those vіn znischuvav polyakіv scho ..." - Note! revenge is not the bandits with Poland and Poles. Polish children fasten to a tree and kol.provolokoy fotochku made for a report on the work done to "employers" in the Reich. The Nazis, with the innate pedantry, documented in case of watchdog wants to do, for what he did not pay, and it is "normal" practice of professional. Services.Bandera course argue, but let be called at least one independent organization, apart from the OUN naturally.
it is good that you are "vysiraesh" always a katsapsky nonsense.))) people, for your example, once convinced that katsap - cattle. somebody else's problems ...
I am a PhD in history and live in Lviv. Better you read history not Soviet, UKRAINIAN, who wrote BLOOD GUERRILLA LIBERATION MOVEMENT AND WHAT UZNAESH UPA.  Receive a pass and read to the main archive SBU DOCUMENTS stamped PSB SECRET THAT are not published on the Internet. IF I am a moron, you motherfuckers.
These chmoshniki Bandera, and can only fight with the elderly. Game worn, we were on 9 May will come, we will tear.
I was fighting in the Avganistane and seen a lot. People had to fight for an independent Ukraine, not the Ukraine in the Soviet Union.
And Poles also pictured God knows what kind of photo pokazivayut UTB those out there that deal with anti-Ukrainian propaganda used to work with the Kremlin and hid from them NKVD repressions against Poles
It is better to listen to music, and do not have time to register navonyal ...
Ukraine - an autonomous region of Russia!
My belching Russian obkonchenny in your mouth!
Well, you and Dr. "lboeb ..)) .. for what Vilna Ukraine? Ukraine to '17 and from there on 22 other Soviet republics formed ... so fuck you Muscovites and soaked you downs .... and those who did not finish, we ... we will achieve!
How can a miserable beggar dying out shit call himself "the great Russian people?Just as a person superior to the animal, the Jews superior to all nations of the earth!
Bandera fought for the independence of Ukraine and Russia, and from Germany. As he could. But he went on to an agreement with the Nazis to release the Ukraine from sovetstkoy occupation. But when I saw what atrocities the Germans are doing and decided to fight the Nazis and the Soviets.
I Belarusian nationality, but I work in the Department of History of Supervisors Lviv Polytechnic. Learn to read the first jerk. Your IQ through the floor. Come with your dick ostsasyvay Putin. Do not dick you do on this site. Sie pidar und Ihr Vater und Ihr ded waren auch pidarasy. (Your father and your grandfather was fagot).
GO FOR THE SOUL worm Vitale goner :))))
... If they will put forward the slogan "Freedom - people! Freedom - Man! "Expel Kremlev skih dwarfs give freedom Chechnya, Tatarstan, Siberia and other republics Putin jailed for his crimes against sobbstvennogo and other people! ..
Fecal PROCESSION!
... Holy motherland Ukraine pravonaslednitsu Rus Hetmanschina Sich and other country-Russia.This uebki, rednecks and the enemies of the people.Moscow already sick when Ukraine becomes UKRAINSKOY.Oni (and their henchmen) believe that the Russians lick your ass, it's a common cause and it should be.Cancer that we must stand with them, or we are traitors.This is not the brothers and not the people.
Ukrainian nationalism - is shit. The foregoing does not apply to him. Russian, French, Serbian, Greek nationalism - are worthy of respect. 
people are not to blame that on his land vyblRdki born. sorry normal Ukrainians.
because cattle synonym hahol
Nice guys as well.How much can you make from Ukraine battlefield!?What a dunce you
Ravens, you tyrant! And then the little Cossacks to the UPA and the Nazi SS, what are you talking about, my God!What the Mongols, you simply unaware of his slave relationship.How do I feel shame, to be like you compatriot.You did not learn that Shevchenko?Where did he go? in Austria, in Poland?He went to Russia for the truth!It was printed and published, and in those years, in Ukraine it is not published, that such tyrants, like you!There will be no truth in the Ukraine, and my heart bleeds!Although Ukrainians have always been traitors.
So it is also a nickname in real life something like Roses barrier))))))))))) You freak of nature, because you're some kind of fucking pussy Putin's garbage, it's first, second, Chechens fuck you every day and do not bullshit me, lowbrow, it is not so, and thirdly, I'm on the dick sent dumbass, fuck you rypyzhysh like Th-can))))) with dick slipped or something))) )) It is beneath my dignity to patients bazaar mental hospital, I realized burp?That <wbr>-to that Manda fog wafer.
I was not bent. I have many friends, Caucasians, a great relationship with them. My dear boy, I grew up in another country, where those who do not care what nationality, where the words of friendship, unity and brotherhood of the people were not propaganda, and everyday life. And where such Nazis as Bandera, we are eradicated.
theory, the theory-practice is denied)
But for all officials (Dorval to trough) they should not be called "rulers" and see them as what they are: the former communists, bankers, Young Communists, bandits or kegebisty. Remember - that power is always looking for more power and if not kept within the status quo, they will quickly become lords and treat ostalnymi as their slaves. because you can not keep within the law those who do write laws! 
Properly Jewish, is M. Shapovalov.A Russian is Finnish-Finno-tatarva ..The entire capital of the Rostov people ....Suzhdal capital Merya people .....Moore Capital Murom people .....Capital city of Ryazan people Erzya ..... mAAskva, capital Moksel people ....
Stepan Bandera and J. Stetsko in 1943, announced the creation of an independent state in the territory of Western Ukraine. They introduced a new currency - Bandera karbovanetses. Stepan Bandera was counting on the support of the Nazis in the war against the Bolsheviks in upholding the independence of Ukraine. But Hitler did not want the independence of Ukraine as well, and Stalin. For it in 1943 Stepan Bandera and J. Stetsko were captured by the Nazis and placed in a concentration camp Zaksenhaus. In which the two were up to December 1944.
Katsap is harmful znat.ot fear stop to go home!
Stepan Bandera is our hero!
Ukraїnі glory!
"The names of whose leaders were all occupational German administration" - specifically? Bandera 41go Germans themselves are thrown into a concentration camp as soon realized that together with the Germans to fight the UPA is not going!
Although I am from western Ukraine, but I agree that the actual act of Bandera is banditry. Bandera traitors of the Ukrainian people. True champions of free and fair popular Ukraine were Cossacks and Nestor Makhno.
Like Putin ... However, a Jew)
It was worth at least that Russia even today remains camoy major country. Plus, the fact that some of the former republics of today is not located on the agricultural level, it is also to their credit. 
I do not want to be the brotherly people of "the people" that their culture and language originally had, which is a synthesis of the Finno-Tatars and Finns, which ignorant and downtrodden. It is terrible to know that the person spreading the polygraph in eastern Europe, Moscow would be executed for witchcraft - I about Ivan Fedorov. It is terrible to think that the entire Russian symbolism era Mongol yoke. It is terrible to realize that after some 50 years in the European part of Russia will be one big Asian aul
movchi is liquid Tobe islova not davaly
Scream and chatter is one thing, declaring in an official document is another. do not confuse the tumor with a finger. but of the 19 th century on the 1870 sources in the Russian Empire are given the following information on the ethnic composition of Russia 1. Russian (72.5%, more than 86 million) a) Stone. a.1) Ukrainians a.2) Poleschuk a.3) Rusyns b) Russia c) of the Great 2. Poles (6.6%) 3. Bulgarians. and so on. why is not the fact that if there name on to the Criminal and this person thought himself, and called the name of Ukrainians.
Bandera Hero of Ukraine.
Bandera is nemettsko-fascist litter
how many idiots in the world! how many idiots will pounichtozhat Russian people ...
Mlechin course fag, fag and Bandera was the cube, Mlechin before him grow. Bandera! Angry and silently masturbate!
tinplate
..Labor camp in the ghetto lasted until June 1, 1943. Upon liquidation camps Jews offered armed resistance, killing and injuring several policemen. In liquidation involved units SS and German police, Hitler Youth. Around 7,000 Jews were deported to Janov, most of them were shot in the "sand." 3000 Jews were killed during liquidation of the ghetto.When July 27, 1944, Soviet troops took Lviv, it was less than 300 Jews, who were hiding in the city and sanitation.
must leave the dead to bury their own dead topic is not on the agenda of all the poets and heroes arise during, and the great plan of fascist marches away
you're right Putin Jewish and Ukrainian Farion Harnack maiden nearly the same as purebred Tyagnibok, Yushchenko and Tymoshenko! Indeed, we know little about him, such as why his children are citizens of Russia, not the U.S., that the Jew porhaty saves suchenok on their own children and his wife is Russian, too, is very strange! )
Dude, well, if Ukrainians and Russians are blood brothers, then ask Putin what he would, Maleh, we reduced the price of gas, the atoms are not fraternally somehow turns :)
I'm from the eastern Ukraine, more precisely, with the Lugansk region. Parents are both Russian and on its nationality I also Russian. But suddenly (!), I love the country in which I was born and raised. You can not understand, you just know how to throw by shit. But I'd really like to see how you burn a chair, or on what you're sitting there. Go on, please, I'm very uplifting. And yes, sebyvat here I'm not even going, actually because of such daunov you. I am here and I am. Losers: D
Glory Bandera - the hero of Ukraine. My congratulations to the Ukrainian people
That's right, stupid ass! Love Hitler Bandera and pray for them! 
I will curse the rest of his life scum Kravchuk which brought to power the same scum banderoiud geeks of the executioners sadistic maniacs. All this scum now in power upadenki Orangemen different there yuschi Timokha kravchukisty ..
Ukrainians fag
byndera this festering fagot and who exalts in twins
Was, I know, I saw. And leave this didactic tone. Their children will learn, if you can.Zapadentsy - is the Janissaries, but the Turkish civilization and Western. They will always assign the dirty work which refuse sissy-Saxons.Most of them are deprived of normal life prospects, - a great contingent of Guardian Tyahnybok ethnic cleansing.In addition, the West beneficial to push Ukraine and Russia to slow the growth of the power of the latter. Continue
You see, the benefit was only in Russia, not the cost of millions of their lives (though, of course, and the Russian suffered loss of life.)The largest expanse inhabited by these very lives, I mean, Siberia and the Far East.And some former republics have remained Western influence is not rotten) Thanks for the reply.By the way, with last Christmas.
Dumbass ... now its podnapryagi umishka, and can come to you, that in a time when the city was founded Lviv even a nationality was not a "Ukrainian" ...) EPT historians from nat-party campaign svolota 20 years washed mozh you have not been for nothing ...) How stupid you look in isolation ...)
He's just a dog.A dog a dog's death!PS-Now how gamnoukr natsiki.ya should shout Union did not demolish the Union republics indestructible folk)))).Previously, we had a super power, and now I'm ashamed of Benders, female goblins, except forest and assholes that all substituted, no dick is not, and yet driven to the East and South.
In the Red Army and was a lot pedorasov anonistov
Ad at the entrance to the Zoo: "Caution!Saliva nationalist from western Ukraine is deadly. "Let's move away and observe its habits.
Six SS and civilians destroyed for what Soviet soldiers in their huts placed, Poles, Jews ........ you can not love Muscovites, but we must admit, that Bandera ordinary killer. only in the Baltic states and zapadentsev esesovtsemi be honored .....
HEROES OF GLORY!
against the Nazis he fought. But the civilians killed. And this was killing cattle-Hungarian Slavs. Although both Ukrainian and Russian-children of Russia and formerly known as Ruthenians, Rusichi and had one language is Russian. A redneck-Hungary did not have to do with us, he was a maniac butcher.
bash to fuck ... Russian history then cleaned up ... hohlofashisty but something in the DNA code of truth hohloariytsev carried her .. and deciphered ... and now know the great universal truth ... and all of Russia is now on clean water, then povyvedut .. however, the zombies? :-D 
"@ Eliasz37 And Ukraine can boast? Well, except for the ability to swipe ahuitelnogo Russian gas quality whores on the panels in Russia and Europe? ""@ Yuriy RESIN And what is the "GSP"? "Well as you quite erudite man, what is it, then merge-disgracefully!?
So it says that the original is Ukrainian and Russian one and the same language, and it was called-Russian. And our people, and your one was called - ancient Russians and later - Ruthenians. Dialect appeared when the Polish yoke began. Only in Galicia. All words that have appeared in Polish. But 70% of the population prefer Russian anyway.
What is there to argue with peace is possible! For Stalin's reign from 20's to 50's in the union killed 67 million people ... who fought against her then? Even if - 27 million war ... vseravno cleansing, famines, Siberia, took the life of 40 million SVOIH.I who fought against her then?
Gebnya bіsitsya)
Bandera!Russia if it were not you would never nebylob
Kidding?Abramovich RomanFridman Michael Vekselberg.Mona list goes on.You all run by Jews.And ChEChENTsY.Slava Chechens.
pleased Armenian radio katsapvu new year hehehe
Tyagnibok sitting in the cache and taken as his benderasty muzzled practiced ......Your perverts will be this year and the Victory Day "solicit" to civilians?
Bandera Six German ......... scum common  
Only boyus scattering by this time sopyutsya fuck and once again fell apart their own country.
and hahlov called white monkey
Pig movu not understand. Or write in Russian or in English.
Deep movie with meaning. 
... Maybe if he had not killed your brother ... And then there face? I know exactly what the Ukrainians that person had neither any relationship ...... and when did you kanoniziruesh? Or you can simply pagan statues that you poke in the west of Ukraine?
Ukrainian nationalists as "hate the Jews" that the proclamation of the restoration of independence of the Ukrainian State in Lviv June 30, 1941, the deputy head of the Ukrainian government led by Jaroslaw Stetsko, was appointed a Jew Lev Rebet that after the arrest of J. Stetsko German authorities - was the acting head of government . 
It's true .. just knew it fifteen, which "declared" this "republic" Step on the balcony of a cottage and literally yelled FEW WORDS ABOUT INDEPENDENCE! ha ha ha .. we have such a dick to asylums - Russia obvlyayut separate planet and ourselves Napoleons .. ha ha ha ..
Hitler promoted German Germany almost exactly the same. 
Why is "angry at the world" :))) Just "the whole world" - on our side (except loyal Putinists, lukashenkovtsev-that is, those who would like to be terpiloy the Kremlin). You to understand, you are deeply mistaken, ask-what region in Ukraine least criminogenic? Answer-Western Ukraine. What city is the most well-being in terms of criminogenic? My answer, my city! Can the peace-loving people to be what you are ordered to see them "kremlyadskaya" power?
People like you and the author of the mud necessary to press as a child. Bandera's my hero! Who are your heroes?
Correctly - they have not yet answered for the killing of our soldiers in Chechnya! Remember everything! Never Forget, Never Forgive! Banderlog - DEATH! RUSSIAN IN UKRAINE - FREEDOM!
Now let's say there is a sho Putin domische, palace or 100 machines and billions in banks. What a dick --- officially motorcycle with a sidecar, which there is garbage - and all. Well worth somewhere palace or bunker. and who will go? And who officially, as in America, where three power --- can bring something? kuryam is there to laugh. only someone would start immediately --- Go to dick with the post, you more than anyone should. Sobchak there - well, it sho napizdela against Putin --- already thrown her from everywhere. you sho, novosteky not you read?
Look at the guys on what's going on with us and understand that the order in Russia. I am ashamed of the fact that in our country there.
Ebaat, so you're writing in an unknown language, who are the Latin "i" in the Russian text is inserted instead of "and"? Banderovets podi? My grandfather notably you ozalupil - two orders for the suppression Polliwog separatist has.
In the days of the "union" was not realistic to go abroad is not that to work, a tourist travel was difficult. Now, in an independent Ukraine, my friends can not stand in line for an apartment, they just buy them, earning money abroad. I earned money just in independent Ukraine, and here bought a house ("poltoraetazhka"). In alliance with Russia to do was impossible. That's you and the difference!
Shanovny, Yakscho Wee zvertaєtes to іnshoї Lyudina, requires vzhivati ​​"Vi". But if you are a boor, then no one will correct the gaps in your education. I read about Garibaldi, believe me. For symmetry allowed "bow" boorish citizen.
crest, you will never be worthy rulers!so envious silence, kike scum ...
Mlechin loves to distort the facts, it would be better dick would cringe benefit would have been more.
In 1989, I was part of the events that Moscow television has brought an angle of 180 degrees opposite to the actual events. Similarly, and this film was created. God will judge them. My grandmother liked to say, "bullshit world evaded, but not vozvratishsya back." Moscow lied - the Soviet Union collapsed. Moscow continues to lie - expect the collapse of Russia.
"...When we asked in Russian, to order, the girl behind the counter pretended not to understand, and the cafe was quiet ... "And what happened next?
No need to slander the Ukrainians!
Yet the film does a Jew, so that to understand hatred Bandera possible - for them it is not better than a beast of Hitler.
In the west UkrainDii - dybily! This is where a country? Somewhere in Tibet? Yes, even a monument to Hitler, do not you care? You put up a monument to Stalin?
Watch the video. Ukrainian nationalism. Unlearned lessons. There rassekrechinye documents and discussions, will accept all interested parties.
if they do not like the flag that is their problem, they were the host and they were required to maintain order and prevent those skirmishes that took place to be. they have been at it all possible. and now because of their inaction and lack of foresight of Russian-Polish relations marred. 
Fikalnoe saloheroystvuyuschih procession in honor of cunts vylezaniya banderki-sniffers (amateur couples tsianita sniff). High pebezdey, Tu Yu. High pebezdey, Tu Yu. High pebezdey, banderkin. High pebezdey, Tu Yu. Ugh .... damn, filthy!
"Since 06/12/43 Mary Will Mikulčice commune, county owner-Volyn. About 15.00 it was surrounded by Ukrainian nationalists and began to kill Poles guns, axes, pitchforks and sticks. Killed about 200 people (45 families). Around 30 people have thrown alive into the pit, and they kill them with stones. 18 children from 3 to 12 years old who hid have caught, put on a cart and brought to the village of Holy Cross, and there killed: pierced fork, cut with axes. Action led Kvasnitsky. "Heroes ... damn!
Filth, Ukrainians and fought in Chechnya against the Russian. Well, what are the Slavs? zhidohohly usual.As govoritsyaGde Ukrainian Jew was to do nothing.When the crest was born a Jew cried.
The Court recognized Yanukovych Bandera fake "heroes."HAM JAC said so TRIAL AND RECOGNIZED>
Bandera bravely fought against Stalin, but he was volsh pawn, the real enemy of Stalin was Hitler, so what melochittsa? Let's reset on the monument to Hitler as a hero who fought bravely with the Ukraine-Moscow Stalinist plague!
You illogical mumbler! Hermaphrodites do not need someone else to reproduce. I see you there all zavshivel brains in the hole where exist. I bet you drink and jerk, and in search of masturbation is not even able to find virus-free porn site, judging by your stupid fucking.
while you're here pussy garbage deer, your hohlushek-sluts fuck all of Moscow. Got it motherfucker? I'll fuck your sister, loved it too deshovaya prostitute.
demiurgos11 so what the language will be urainsky! if you like you better then you dick! I think Ukrainians brothers, but every country has ugly Tipo you are posing as a man to be all-knowing! If the union in which you too were once there would be no more Jews and Slavs in Ukraine would not be! And France is a country of fascists and what's good? Did not take off our grandfathers fought?! teach history and think!
Nationalistic mess in one word! Ukrainians Poles expelled, then Poles Khokhlov, and went into the woods with the partisans fought against the Germans, and then again for the Germans against the Soviets ... filth in one word!
In an area near Ostruvki Luboml, in Ukraine, there exhumation of the remains of Poles were executed UPA August 30 1943. On that day died in Ostruvkah 1,700 Poles from villages: Ostruvka. The will Ostrovets, Yanovets and Kuta. Their remains will be transferred to the Polish cemetery near Jagodina Rymachah ("Newspaper", Toronto, August 24-25, 1992)
I see on the Ave, you do not even hide the fact that you are not a nationalist, but openly Nazi, right?Oh, and?Tell me how to zbredit far that love Hitler natsikovskoyu evil?
And what a day Bandera was not a citizen of Ukraine? And the fact that Bandera was in Polish prisons, under the Polish regime and fought primarily with Polish citizens? <Leander - the personification of extreme manifestations natsyanalazima ... Since wearing pestoletov his belt, knives the boots ...No idea what she was not clean and beautiful, is not worthy of any of the methods (Lenin promised far too great, probably) ...
they burn in hell
that power is not my ebala :) what you answer to your mate? pizdyuk you yourself? yes you do it yourself and perhaps you know:-D under Stalin someone you went ... You seem pidorok if you assume a relationship :) but if yours operate concepts - it is strictly you and like you went to a bush:-D and it is something in the differing from Stalin beacon of democracy and hope of all hohlofashistov :) And pensioners?. . Peregovorschih cocks ... You grandparents will make pereprisyagat? :) You're a moron :)
it is so important to us is your opinion, that's sooo important.
and you're so tech, a nickname such poor chose ... it's probably on the completeness of the Russian language and your respect for him. Arschloch!
Western Ukrainians have been prostitutes, and they remain hicks)))), you have always had and will have))).
It is significant that Ukrainophobes Mlechin not cite a single fact podtverdayuschego unfounded utvezhdeniya that Bandera urged Ukraine to make racial cleansing as in Croatia. So all this nonsense with Pavelic and Croats far-fetched to Ukraine. In the ranks of the UPA fought troops of different nationalities, there were Jewish doctors. So all this cheap propaganda.
not bothered to complain hohlofashistskuyu garbage? :) This silly country has enabled humanity to go into space :) This silly country has built plants in your country! For madhouse you first look at its orange:-D insane chevstvuyuschie Bender and Mazeppa:-D Moskal "ponapihali" as you - schmuck - say because to plants operated by them to manage trained people .. and not such as you dalbaeby, deer :) 
I looked up your old comments. Well, you and crazy
You silly katsap the fuck we need you! Do not go to a foreign land, you will not get in the face.
I think you went to the Academy and daughter closed up, what would the army Sahak not walk.Now sitting on the Russian YouTube and pussy fucking.What are you thinking, you get out of Tbilisi will be hard goat?
Oh yeah, forgot to say - my grandfather told bEnderovtsy instead Bandera and when I told him just chuckled as they say in it, and we thought that the Polliwog from Bender. So even stepushka your stories will be left for no fucking fuck up. Come on, slap, not a cough, not Holodomor there.
Bandera shit yesterday, was a coward! led dog lifestyle accordingly and died like a dog! GLORY OF THE RUSSIAN PEOPLE
Glory to the heroes of Ukraine!
Is liquid! Nigger in the mirror you will see elegance smelly!
In addition to English I'm familiar with the history of Russian art, once I was driving tour of the "Tretyakov Gallery" and was struck by the Russian nevezhdestvom about their culture and history. Sorry, but we can not argue about anything, because we are in a different "weight classes." Teach your native language! Love their homeland (and never meddle in someone else's house with its Charter).
In western Ukraine is always right! In Ukraine Banderu almost no one believes a hero.
, Kievan Rus stay in Ukraine
... And yet, you can hurt the diagnosis benderastiya you more confused? .. Since when was diagnosed benderast natsionalnotyu? ... The role of the Russian people in the history of Lviv hurt his feelings (((...Do not be an idiot, but just accept with gratitude, what a beautiful city was left to you as an inheritance, largely due to the people that you are so sincerely "admire"!
Go on ... here lies the lack of historical foundation. Ukraine - not a single area on which there is a presently existing state, and Ukraine-margin, or if you prefer, at the edge. This is just a border area, the Far East and Kazakhstan in the Russian Empire were the same in Ukraine. Now for the Ukrainians, there is no nation, no such language (you are ready to shoot me already?))), But it's true! Facts-find yourself if you want. I will give a hint syntax ... find differences.
Shame, Ukraine! We introduce peacekeeping kontengent to Ukraine! The structure will include Russian peacekeepers - 500 tys.soldat mixed army of the EU - 400 tys.voennyh. And gas will be safeguarded, and the brains of the poor people into place.
you yourself garbage Jewish descendant of hermaphrodites and animals
No one dictatorship and one regime in the world has brought so much misery to his people than the Soviet regime!!
Imbecile, what are "the Poles, Czechs, Germans, Romanians"? There they damn little. 90% of urban ethnic Ukrainians. Lviv was founded Ruthenian (Ukrainian) King on our ethnic lands. While in the 17th century in the city of Poles were the majority, but the region has always been more of Ukrainians. Where someone shouts in Lviv, the Poles we brothers? Never heard of. But katsapskoe brat, so-called Russian, we still enemies. And I write this - a radical from Kiev, and not any of Lviv.
Tupa propoganda
And how is it that many people think of Ivan the Terrible, Peter the Great, Catherine, Nicholas, Lenin, Stalin, the heroes? And it turned out that each country has its own heroes. And nothing to get into someone else's garden. We have ourselves to deal Who is the hero and who is Hera.
That the author was smoking? Complete nonsense
That is your opinion. Leave it with me. Dinghi hello!
I thought kakly peaked degeneratizma, but no, you gave something new, "we, Ukrainians killed USSR dodavit and everything else) for 800 years" .. even comment on something, in a yellow house for the internet is? Or there are free like you because of lack of funds?
Fragment interrogation transcripts former head of the Abwehr-II Berlin district of Colonel Erwin Stolz. May 29, 1945. "Bandera's arrest was the fact that he was in 1940., Having received from the Abwehr large sum of money to finance the OUN underground organization and scouting activities against the Soviet Union was trying to assign and moved to one of the Swiss banks. "
So you potentates except in politics and do not allow anyone))) And there are those who have his ass licking))) 
krasnozhopі provocateur
Continued. Unfortunately, the hand plays Tyagnibok Yanukovych, who for fear of losing the same Klitschko makes nazi sparring partner for the upcoming elections, bringing thus the nationalist mold on the leading position in the media space. He pursues his fine selfish interests, forgetting national.All, I'm done. Your opinion is unlikely to be for inter-tion, because all that I'm here, away from you l - TNO surface, but with aplomb. Do not bother. I will not read. 
Yes, Mlechin disappoint
And there could not have done without you, each barrel bung. Fucking Jew ...
you make elementary mistakes in logic --- Did I say make? want to live in Ukraine --- behave accordingly. --- not have what you have. Muscovites power - over. Now the power of bulls morons, but strong opposition national element. and the Jews --- if normal, we understand that there is nothing to interfere. but some do not understand. and lead double triple play - this is stupid. 
And do not dream!)))
S.Bandera-hero, fighting for his country and in his own country (excuse the tautology), and Chechen bandits in Nord-Ost Buinaksk etc. Is defending its territory?Leave this topic, you'll lose in this debate ....Sincerely Russian, but a citizen of Ukraine.And the language, I do not forbid to speak in their own language and not morochte brains ...
Shitty-hung were freaks like you!
All that Ukraine was the hatred and revolution of consciousness, and therefore nuthouse. And not because the people there what you are not. Billions invested in the corruption of the great Russian people, where a part of the Little Russians.
Dull scum you die and Ukraine sigh of relief! Glory to the Slavs.
Bandera collaborated with the Germans, and it is bad ...probably.But why in the film does not say that the other bastard Stalin worked much more and even signed a peace pact with fasshistami-REBENTROP-hammers. SO THE FILM - so consider the history PROPAGANDA.nelzya
I'll go and look like you
You're right ...How much time I've noticed.They have learned from the communists so pisdet.No wonder so many years, the center was communism in Moscow)
Why do you write nonsense about a fictional genetic research? And instead of confirmation insult.
Creatures such as Bandera need to kill a child, I'm sorry they did not break all the NKVD. Eternal memory NKVD officers died at the hands of thugs and traitors. Shame on those who put monuments fascist lackeys as Bandera.
You're the same as a German I parahod.You maximum Judeo-katsap who went back to Germany. Not free puppy and get to you soon.
You confuse history incompatible distorting the facts! Non-aggression pact was favorable to Stalin that the USSR could have prepared to resist .. Intelligence reported to Stalin that nemchugi preparing to invade the Soviet Union. On that Stalin had to sign the pact. The Germans quickly realized this and suddenly attacked. Now a lot of literate that distort history, invented facts, such as Stalin did nothing, etc and etc. ..
Slavs are one people
lozhili we, you, Katsap, with the device and will lay down. Spines, spines, katsapskaya zmeyuka we, Ukrainians killed USSR dodavit and all) 800 years, no nation in the world is able to destroy the Russian empire, and we, Ukrainians Udall is so that your anger - this is from bezsiliya. The day will come when we will return and Kuban and Smolensk and Orel and Kursk and all other Ukrainian lands, the Golden Horde, we took. And no one to talk to you will not, it will just drive back to the Horde to Russia.
I like that I just watched a program about Lenin, and there he was in the end of life bitterly regretted that the road turned out not quite the one on which he relied, and he basically created a system that crushes everything and everyone. Must of course give credit to owls. power. Gave free education, have been at least some social guarantees, after graduation she was able to easily get a job. But the beginning of the march was very bloody. As one German soldier, "Sov. Soldiers not afraid of death and afraid of the authorities'
Che did not come up!!
Of course I'm not Ukrainian, I'm Ukrainian, Ruthenian possible, as it is our ethnonym.And the great Ukrainian Bandera, love to suck cut, do not talk about it on the net, loshe moskalskoe))))))))))))
"They praised terror", "killed the Soviet ambassador," "planned it" - is a huge emphasis in the transfer, but the reason for such action - the Holodomor from 6-9! million victims so casually mentioned. Well, to be honest, though the filmmakers fellows that try to look at all the reasons why then young Ukrainians fought against it.
I personally like a drum relate to other peoples of the Russian Federation, I live in this country and I love her, or anyone not blame anyone or their problems, I solve them, rather than looking for those who are to blame ... schetayu and that any nationalism is the weakness of the one who looks more to solve the problem is not fancy, and the weakness of ... others can spit into the monitor ... and even from the Russian Federation not vydit Siberia and the Far East as it will act in the end they will lose all they have ... and will be an appendage ...
Glory to the heroes! Ukraїnі glory!
Come on, come on. Fucked Galicia. They all went to feed the worms. )
.... Er, are you threatening to press the buttons on keyboard ...) ... and when you are not prompt benderastichesky language? ... And will it be closer to the German or Yiddish?
KILLER and the gang got what they deserved
A good movie! That SWNTs that Bandera all lackeys of the Nazis is a pity that they are not all security officers destroyed. Dogs dog's death.!!!!! 
The usual story: Russian democrats zkakchivayutsya when starting Ukrainian (question of Ukrainian independence)
and if you're stupid shkolota what I do to you there is no need to debate. 
I always do, when Russia and its henchmen "hit" as a person can be considered a hero who fought for the freedom and independence of their country, and how can you not love the Bolsheviks, because they brought the collectivization, the abolition of private property, the famine-genocide <wbr> - and e, the extermination of the Ukrainian culture and rossifikatsiyu.How is it?)))))Mazepa a traitor, he is betrayed Russia!)))))Ukrainians did not want to fight for Russia, and for his state of, ah-ah-ah!))))))))) 
where is your Galicia was before the 39th? so back, restore historical justice and quiet clean sartir Polish gentry, and they will reward you with a whip Intermedia blades)))) "Unfortunately, too often, I realize that my fellow-natives of Little Russia, his life doomed to be slaves. For anything else not suitable.Perennial laziness and stupidity Ukrainian can only overcome the whip in the hands of the Muscovite "- Shevchenko.In an Internet naryl, in kobzdar gave it))) 
Russian "pippl hawala" this nonsense, because this way he can escape the thought that this "pippl" afraid of strangers in their own country (watch this video for a bunch of real yutyube) - unlike the Russian "pippla" Ukrainians at the time, defended their rights precisely because of "Bandera" and Bandera. Hysteria about Ukrainian liberation struggle is the awareness of its futility. At the same time, I have friends in the Russian, who are sensitive to the history of Zap.Ukraine
I agree with this assessment of the Nazis, "Liberty." However, a short time left for them.
Verte dogs Moscow and beyond. Bi if you want to go to the farm and rot in the camps, I hate Children are mongrels. All lodges all)) 
each Bandera - by Stashinskomu)!
one popravochka, srach not between Muscovites and Ukrainians and between Rusichi and Galicia (where there is little Ukrainians). For about 85% of the population does not consider the murderer of women and children in any Bandera a hero. Moreover - despise the bastard.
Hatred of Bandera kills your soul
, You can not read or think, at the time of Kievan Rus was Ukraine, during the founding of Kievan Rus' was not on our zamlyah Christianity. Want to understand more deeply moving Ukraine see existing mythologies. You have to see who creates and uses them, and be sure, they do it not for your benefit and in which their own purposes. 
Katsap, you should not spit, you have Vlasov, our Kuban Cossacks, they can say was in solidarity with the Bandera. But such films and the findings suggest that there is nothing you have not changed, it can be said, and fought against such of the above.
What do not you like Bandera? And Garibaldi you like a hero, if he heard of him? What's the difference between them?
BANDERYAKU Gilyaks-ON!
Now I'm not defending Moscow ...I just do not want to tamper with the story ... I am ashamed that you consider Bandera a national hero.For you my grandfathers fought against the fascists.My came to Prague to Berlin and signed on the Reichstag!A Bandera, shame and your traitor.
From I wonder! In the archives of nobody. Why so? The documents do not publish. Why so?Documents for the period of the war, even after 70 years of secret. Why so?And then what a journalist without a single document does "true" film about the events and people who are still top-secret!Can we trust him?? I think not! Or let's say, or documents that say what I think and this is my private opinion! Do not always tell the truth, even colleagues and contemporaries!! THINK WHAT YOU SEE! 
Your mother sucks dick Russian
dopey dumb herd.
Yeah we will take the example of the Russian schools are looking immediately Job reporter - Class hatred
Parrot shit, PIZDYULEY keep getting, YUSCHINKI geek!
No worse and no better than yours, scallywag.  OTTOydi and not get in the way, and better PROSSTO sit down for a history book (preferably a school-based program to 1991 edition) and read it, there's a lot of interesting things.Only then taste it to enter into polemics with other ...
Who wrote about it a shame Bandera Ukraine, the uncouth nedolugy komunyakami, history, people learn. Not in school textbooks for 1961 and newer take, and that the light of his stupidity here. And monsters who say this about Ukraine and about our true heroes is simply minded descendants displaced freaks from the Ryazan province where even people still do not know how to read, and are only able to guzzle vodka yes strum balalaika and grandfather Stalin dick sucking. A  
So you're not just degenerate, education .. No brainer that the Soviet Union was falling apart from the inside and from the outside, it could not make a 3 person can only sign, clearly a hedgehog, but not you. A 800 years of the empire, which ruined the crest gorbachev I save, there is a special section for such thoughts. Explain clown, why great kakly that destroyed the empire, so live? You got potential, which was not a single republic, you have not created anything during nezalezhnosti but squandered remnants.
Normal katsapskaya poebotina, dirty everything possible crap) Well uporoty narodec same, well, a dimwitted, and tight. And yourself about Vlasov and Vlasov not remember, bitches? Katsapyzdishki huepizdishki obeboshennye filthy scum. And the Soviet Union until 1941 OFFICIAL collaborated with the Nazis until Hitler bent their vnezapnenko. Cooperated and did not even know that they will attack. And who is the traitor, filthy bitch, you Katsap crap.
Psychology has become a barbarian mentality Great and there could be no vaccinations and public vaccination (laws, prisons, orders) will not help. Everyone knows the resolution for a three robberies Zhukov destroyed Berlin in 1945. During these three days the Germans retaliated in full (hundreds of thousands of raped German women and girls (and boys .. kstati. peasants also did not miss), stolen Dresden Gallery, hundreds of cars illegally confiscated property, etc.).
Could be attributed to all the false propaganda moskalskuyu if the film was not created Mlechin-noble anti-Soviet and liberal!
It is insulting to the core
In Russia really afraid of freedom - know that the devils in the case of forced union and may obtain on the snout. So be it - let them know their place.
Disgusting to watch it. It would seem that the learned men of this nonsense and concocted.
Well done!
Well at least you own razumiesh pishish what then? rozstrіlіv, Borotba s іntelegentsієyu to represіy Tilke was under Stalin. A famine you have thought up, because he was around SSSRu not Tilke in Ukraine. If anyone wants to back in the USSR, it is certainly not in the days of Stalin.You stupid fool a young 17 years old, have no idea about life in the Soviet Union. By your understanding all the 70 years in the Soviet Famine, shot and repression! We should have those mind to reason ponabrali before here that that Writers!
OUNіvtsі in Abhazії??
You chmirina fucking, I Th fucking insulted? I answer to you is not just backfire ... for life. Reveal to you bitch
Bolgradsky area - Bulgaria - 60.8%, Gagauz - 18.7%, Russian - 8.0%, Ukrainians - 7.5% Reni district - Moldovans - 49.0%, Ukrainians - 17.7%, Russian - 15 , 1%, Bulgaria - 8.5%, Gagauz - 7.9% Artsizsky district - 39.0% Bulgarians, Ukrainians 27.4%, Russian 22.5% Tarutinsky district - 37.5% Bulgarians, Ukrainians 24.5 %, Moldovans 16.5% 13.9% Russian. Here the data are taken from Wikipedia
Bandera - COWARD AND PRIDATEL. I saw a huge, vooruzhonnuyu fashiskuyu army and decided that they would win and just as the Germans came up with the idea natsialisticheskuyu, that Terminated their atrocities, he hoped that the Germans after winning him a little autonomy to stand out and it is they will be six. NU horseradish Nitsche, failed. The coward against innocent Ukrainians fought. I hope he's in hell sunbathe.
Females removed complete garbage, Stepan Bandera was molodchaga, thunder zhidokomunyak, enemies of the Ukrainian people, we would have such a leader now
You did an r compose Pushkin? Judging from the video you added you you very often uzhiraeshsya vodyaroy to grunts:-D 
But thanks to him we have a sovereign state. And it is well worth it!
Suck do not be distracted, Dougie love you :)
In this case "Lvovskoe trash" - is jaded bastards AdzessY and Crimea
originally a Ukrainian and Russian, was one and the same language, and it was called-Russian. And our people, and your the only one and was called - ancient Russians, Russian, and later - the Ruthenians. Dialect appeared when the Polish yoke began. Both Ukraine and central Russia in the territory of Russia
this video = false History Facts + + Great Russian propaganda has turned inedible salad from which vonyaet1. interesting author discusses the NKVD executions of Ukrainians in Lviv, as standard procedure, 2. OUN-B has refused to cooperate with the Nazis because they were considered OCCUPIERS, 3, and so on a bunch of lies, and even otsebyatinyNo through this warped lies movie shows the heroic Postup Ukrainian nationalists. Glory to the heroes! Glory to Stepan Bandera!
Give us a hand on the block?
Boy, snot fade, and milk on the lips at the same time. If you have one and that meander promezhdu feet. what about all this talk neobyazatelno. 
Listen, and Bandera with the Nazis fought against Russia?
Lіchis ...Do you scho for dіagnoz? I zayu ..Sluggishly is fluid shizofrenіya!!!!!
3. However, we have some reason do without fists. Sorry, but even in the Gay Rope, in which you drag THREE freedom, such a relationship in gosaparate extremely priemlemy.4. And what is so chauvinistic Putin did deviate from this nedotrahannoy hag? We have 66 official languages.
And your reverence the New York Times and there is generally a yellow rag Washington Times (not to be confused with the Washington Post) is simply ridiculous: that the bourgeois press was writing the truth.Especially that Lenin or there Dzerzhinsky hoarded at a house in the village ...))You know what you call in the West? Tampax-State - State seal. While some sort of Yushchenko as fools rush with a written sack with events nearly 100 years ago, today, and now Ukraine is losing millions of its citizens. (At least 6 million)
Stalin tsvan.
We immediately see that in the Kazan metro, you were not. And why should they in infa gosucherezhdeniyah on natsyazyke if no one forbids them to speak it? The more so that the release of the press and literature in local languages ​​are not banned. 
In about the Finnish-Soviet Union intended to fight on the side of the enemy, then why push the boundaries of Leningrad? And if you think of the theme of "world revolution" (then a lot of the country came under the influence of Russia), - so composed picture-Russia is a conqueror. If you dig deeper, then you can and remember the conquest of Siberia. They used to live there peoples on their lands, so let it be living, no, their "liberated" from their traditions (religion, shamans and the like were forbidden) and their natural resources.
Stormtroopers at Goring on top, too, were only Ponte and massacre. 
... And from what you do not agree in the movie? - "The Ukrainians - is Russian" ...What conclusion did you do, seeing that documentary?
You stupid? or Jews working? Zionist media around the world were against Putin and did everything to prevent it to power! What are you - blind? Who removed the Jews from the feeders and put Jews on the bench? - PUTIN! They will not forgive him! He fights against Zionism and for this they hate him! But we do not advise you ... that may be advised if you think that the enemies you Russian, and the Jews took you to complete revolution in the meantime ..
blah, what a stupid podkioskovy pivosos :) :) :)
UKRAЇNІ GLORY!Neha Givet UPA!Glory to the heroes!
Here here. As you rightly said invalidkoy you and your mother are not people.
Hula you here for me ezyk Clem hit it, I'll at Bender, and the fact that at 30 years of the famine starved Ukr all that garbage? this way you would destroy Ukr language (and Prick you)! I'm not against Russia, I just do not like people who stavet themselves above all, note that Bender does not kill Toko Russian .. I myself speak Ukr, and know the history of their country, and the fact that you tell me that there vteraesh about what that Ukr Cove Architectural project created to destroy Russia's all a lie. Believe me I know what I am talking about!
FSB is simply no place to recruit Rabotnicki in asylums :) here eva asked for them :)
Kindle, conquer, kill! Soon we will expel from the Ukrainian soil residues Katsap who then remained in their homeland Russia, joined the European Union, and then begin to live normally. You then Katsap cares to our affairs? You start a holiday in honor of Stalin who killed millions of their fellow citizens, here's your hero. UPA fought against the seizure of their land, as against the Nazis and against the commies. Here's a present for my dear Katsap: watch?v = GiolXfUvE8E
tell me where you can get your share?
I will not speak of Bandera. I can only say that so many Teror as Lenin and Stalin regime made no dictatorial rule did not. See clips shot rosiyanami isotrikami ... obaldeete themselves. but about the company ss with Russian, ivlasovtsev not forget. That's the only difference is that the Bandera kill strangers in their own land and they killed their own at the same house.
That you give me an example is given in some sparsely populated areas of one particular area? For Ukraine, it is a drop in the ocean. And once again, even in the whole Odessa region Ukrainians explicitly majority (2/3 of the population). You'll come to France and tell me what you want to talk to you in a convenient language. There is Basques who live in their historic lands over thousands of years, but they have no exceptions. For all but the French, and exams in high school all the rent only in French. We will as well.
Nit!
Simple Russian soul, stupid drunk mug. Footcloths Putin EdRo, the garbage in the hallway. Reveler on weekdays until morning and squash caviar. Lenin's portrait on the shelf, for drunk janitor blowjob. Weedon to dump out of the window and the ever beaten his wife. The daughter of a whore, a drug addict son, my husband went to zassany sofa. Wraparound porches, urine without plaster bricks. At weddings fight scuffle, sex with another drunken wife. Palenque, buckwheat, margarine, snack Russian ugly mug. Thumped - a kick-ass O yeah! Scattering VYALIKA!
With PORVANOY hole.
Let not, then what he possessed) what that twitch, and then, in politics came from a theological, HSR in her party, and if he is intelligent and wise, he originally was supposed to understand what this bitch Theological ..Now Karasev with Balogh, and Balogh this slug-henchman Yanukovych traitor ..She did not think that these should be in freedom ..If anyone is to take from the political scientists, the Oles Dony, for freedom would be just right
sit in his barn Portugal and barks out-ball bastard
You moron, your whole "Russia" is snickering and insolent colony of Kievan Rus. Your Mokvabad founded Kievan prince and you have forgotten whose flunky.
Yeah understood.Uh-huh.Chechens on mAAskve ball is ruled.Well you of any Chechen hiding in the bushes.
".... Did not answer anything substantial on my statement." - Rewrite "statement" - there you have a lot of free-form expressed, but must essentially ...... maybe you're talking about the exploits shlyuhevicha benderastov and tell me, and then your yes-men in a secret society decided to play ...)
... And I know some Ukrainians and Ukrainians call them, and they do not consider benderastov Ukrainians, because those have no nationality - they usually kachevniki (their own words) ...Er, why are you in so much anger and hatred for the Muscovites? Here are my friends, (those who are not Ukrainians) - very kind, sympathetic and so - successful people, and that's preventing a successful and healthy person?
Well, read what happened to Bandera when the NKVD came .. it's waiting for you ...
Here and join in their heroes)) We just do not touch!
Slavs - Representatives of its southern (Bulgarians, Serbs, Croats, Slovenes, Macedonians, Montenegrins, Bosnians), Eastern (Russian, Ukrainians and Belarusians).Think about it, WHEN YOU GOVARISH the Slavs SHIT YOU NOT YOURSELF YOU HAD to lead?
YOUR ensign Ganebny I. ZMOCHENY in POLSKІY NEVINNІY KROVІ. SHELTER ZHІNOK, DІTEY NEMOVLYAT.VI NOT SHANUЄTE GEROЇV Til'ky VOЄNNIH ZLOCHINTSІV.Pid COURT BANDITІV W UPA. Got KOZHEN RIGHT VIZNANNYA SVOЄЇ RELІGІЇ, KULTIVUVANNYA SVOЄЇ TRADITSІЇ ALE Mauger NOT TO LEAD TO VIKONANNYA ETNІCHNIH shelled SO THAT YAK ON Bulo WOLYNIU ² in Lviv. Shame BANDYTOM W UPA!! JA NASRAJU NA TWOJU MOHILU TY PEDALE!!!!
my family was exiled to Siberia for just that in tsarist times had 5 freely-hired permanently, and 15 were employed periodically, dekulakize those who did not work and did not want to work ... the problem is that the Soviet Union from 17 to 40 years of the twentieth century, was destroyed by the portion of the population that is able and eager to work, around the rest of the Empire, it did uprikat is Russian, not a fair statement ... chikisty etc. 80% of those who could not and did not want to work ...
Just look at the world map of murders and crimes per capita, and see who is closer to the spirit of Africa. Like Russian and nyzvayut - white negros.
Banderi glory!High Givet Bandera our pisnyah!She did not zgasne yogo thank our Serce!
Suck it, Banderlog EUROPEYTSEV in silence, only the sperm spit - choke .. ha ha ha you hear - sits in slavery in the muck and there also ..
Bandera is the true spirit of Ukrainians! If Ukrainians refuse Bandera they omoskalyatsya six months! Without the spirit of Bandera Ukraine is completely meaningless education of the public is not any good, the only one hurt. Stay Ukrainian brothers, always alive Bandera is the only meaning of your mindless state education.
By the way, do you know that Bandera was the Ukrainian citizenship, and he knew about Ukraine except that only the Polish newspaper? Bandera was born in Austria, he lived most of his life in Poland, education in the Czech Republic, and died in Germany. These are now the "heroes" in Ukraine ahahahaha What country are the heroes. 
And Putin? Putin finally Jews brought to power in the country! In Russia, you can not do anything, so sovetuetenam what to do :)
Othvatyvanie Crimea and Little and the recognition of Russian or Russian-speaking even as Nat. minorities - also chauvinism, although return these territories have long ago no one demands. The imposition of a national hero, a hero for western Ukraine across the country - is not chauvinism? Even a.
Bandera fought for the freedom of the Ukrainian Communist tiranii.dokazatelstv the fact that he was not a racist and Nazi.The Communists have made our people slaves - they are accustomed to drinking their vodkoyKommunisty made our poor people - our people - the homeless than simple the Americans!Is it possible that you do not hurt the heart of Russia?Create your own company and pumped gold from America!
Note, only the younger generation appreciates him as a hero, because they are taught to shit.
Your Patriarch Kirill to Ukraine today has arrived. He could call in and Krasnodar, we are near the same. Read the story, but rather the attitude of people assessed for the nation.
Hmm, Lions in a European fascist city. This plague western Ukraine 
Stalin, the great Russian Communist! Glory to Stalin!
rozumnі books - those in Canada, Shaw published?
You, too, Guest!
A people without a national hero, without ideology of national unity, the spiritual leader, is like sailing without a sail. Doomed to drift aimlessly, hoping for a while wave it not throw stranded or break on the stones. The fate of such people sad: (. As long as there is at least one nationalist in our country, all is not lost! You utyrki Russian, his other hand on the rotten Ukrainian heroes!Glory to Ukraine, Glory people, the glory of UPA!
First read fecal procession. Realized that I was not mistaken.
... By the way, while benderasty led the massacre of civilians, true patriots (Ukrainians) (respectively, and all other nationalities in our vast country) looking into the eyes of death were the bullets to defend our country ... Then it was all one - yet one!
Ukrainians crazy Bandera hero, wow!
Your uterus is a whore like you kopєla i scho May I Casati about you?
See videos of Sergei Calkin --- Russian national idea-three parts, What to do?, Who is to blame?-Two; Evolution without weapons! Forward to the future! A new race! Why Putin condemned Russia for the Russian or four parts! Effect Culkin! 
"Sometimes cold, sometimes hot, sometimes standing, sometimes hanging" - this shower! But your response suggests that you took this in a different way! This is your mother should be ashamed and sorry for you! For this reason, my dear: Fuck you and fuck me more brains!
Die BITCH!
Read as "faecal procession" Well, I think back to them and the road.
Tee scho about yourself?
Respond to this video ...
You're going to suck)) gave birth to you from swine))) fag you, not Russian, and your grandfather takoyzhe fag and a father, and she does not neotets pig which you create one, wait)) will do it for what you have given birth, that sucked! !!!!  thank ss galychyna!!!
Death for this in the East Region
This from Mlechin I suddenly-Respect 5 +
Terrorism is a disease ... The standard of living in afrikE)))) Okay, what did you come to work with tons of "Africa"?)) you hear and see only the negative, but actually what you want to hear and see ... Sluchaeyutsya tragedy everywhere and do not point the finger at them .. SHSA is slowly but surely on the bottom, just as they are for a pull is another matter ... 
Bandera Hero? : D How naive you are, you yourself do not really know.
Our people fought a horde, and they did not go to the sender. our rulers have people going to war, and your own people killed kings tribute gathering for "Vyšší power" ulus hordes! SLAVES!
Well. Then Hitler hero of Germany!
However, the integration into the European society was one of the stated objectives Tyahnybok. And then you say, "is much worse when the" quiet "." But in Gay Rope is just what all is quiet. Politicians there each other faces not paint. The same, it seems that it also sawing (although, given the policy of NATO, more correctly - absorb)? 
No, you neoborot katsap cocks, to fuck her'll Mothers slut))) and papavshu pidora.ty mold and mildew as zdohnish schmuck!
Your Bandar coward.How vile cur prosidelv Germany and incite young people umiratza him for allegedly "independent" Ukraine.Young people dying, and he cracked sosiski and beer in Munich ..Fucking soldier.
Bandera - whores that there is here? WTF!
Do you even understand what I said?DO you see Muscovites Chechens fuck all of you drag them together))))))))) Oh, you buggers TWO STILL and Chechen prick licks LOVE))))))))))))))) )))) I'm used to suck the Tatars, not soon lose its cunning, hahahahaha)))))
Well if you know the story better, I'm glad that you have taught in the union. The first concentration camps in Europe were you. You destroy people only sympathy for Russia since s1914 year. And do not tell anyone where to climb. And the language you far from literary.
You INTO utterly stupid? Hitler also sobstvenoruchno killed anyone.
Bandera killer of civilians
Vid Donetsk to Lviv, Vid CHERNІGOVA to Odessa VVAZHAYUT TA PAM'YATAYUT SINA-PRO HERO VELIKOЇ SOBORNOЇ Ukrainy.I. Stepanov YAKBI NOT AT HIS DІYALNІST OKUPATSІЇ I. ADVICE DO NOT fascists Bulo HOUR SUCHASNOЇ Ukrainy MOSKALІ CE ² ² know NAMAGAYUSYA inverted particle facts against U.S. 
In the Red Army and was a lot pedorasov anonistov.
that you have the right to an independent ukrainu.nikogda harping about it and actually dependent nebudet never byla.tak as Kazakhstan, Belarus etc. and tp.vse will always depend on the rossii.i is inevitable for all of them Afghan sosedi.a that I have ponimayu.komu war and who then fought rodna.kto mother and who is spending money in zarabatyval.voobsche not understand the hell in troops entered.?for these sheep need one atomic bomb and vse.chtob there three hundred years or people not drugs did not increase
What he would have given you now this leader :)
My grandmother told me how in her village dressed in Russian form of Bandera and shot people and was invited by the photographer and the photos were sent to newspapers with lies ... what are you people lie vtyuhivat, how many years have passed and the correct lie Russian enslavers lives and continues .....
"German leaflet against the OUN and nationalist guerrillas in June 1943. Ukrainian people! Would that you have ruined these Bolsheviks and national masked conspirators? Would that your women, children, young and old Your victim brutes? Remember the destroyed church estates and cultural values, renounce their enemies SWNTs can never protect the national interests of the Ukrainian people. OUN and Bolshevism is one thing, so they must be destroyed!
Look here on YouTube about ROA of OUN, USS - a lot will become clearer than watching zakazushnuyu filmushku rotten!One comment like that I read that the traitors is precisely those who shot, killed, massacred his people! so that almost a century doing just katy NKVD-KGB! and Russian and Ukrainian patriots fighting for their land against them! for this they are still trying to stigmatize, but the people made songs
I wonder what are the methods differ from the methods Bandera Bolsheviks? the same terror, the same cruelty! why are we all so love the double standard?A constitution June 30, 1941? Authoritarian, totalitarian state natsiokraticheskoe of? Is not you a copy of the Third Reich? And the murder of Jews, Russian and Polish - all non-Ukrainians?Guys, learn materiel! And developing a love for historical truth!
beat the Communists! Hurrah!
A Bandera did not kill ordinary people? At this point there are documents, eyewitness accounts. Spared neither children nor old men, no women. That was not the story zamazhesh. Why is the number of the OUN and its supporters did not exceed 250 thousand? In this case, voluntarily surrendered 70 thousand, ie, almost every 4th. Why not enjoy the support of the OUN in other regions at all, and in Galicia, they are not spoiled. 
Mr. Shaw pretending you fucking stupid? Of course I can not give a list. where they are. Communist Party has counted more than 1,500 narusheniy.eto those liars at that but did not see the enemy all seen and felt always. sho you - Zhirik not listening? in the Duma - video. he was there and about this steamer and about who had shot from his party in the field. literally had shot. after the election, and he described how to handle observers as forged documents, but all he described. tries and went out of the studio because goats like shouting sho
The fact that you're an idiot, too, the Communists are guilty?
When will tell the truth about themselves? Putin and low growth with complexes of Stalin
withdrawing from the territory of Finland and return the territory, Leningrad would fall very quickly and of course there would be no war of starvation. What is different from the Russian Fino-Ugric or Hetta? Baltic states in 20 years that has made? rebuilding their lives after the devastation left by the Soviet Union? Western Ukraine whole life was a part of one of the largest countries in the world? 
Ordinary Ukrainians axes children do not cut! (Even the enemy!) A Bandera (Bandera with the head) - not people! 
Bender battled kamunistov t Germans.
Idiots you worship?What is he a hero?Russia vows to everything than you and where are you without it??Mediocrity worship fascists ... latest brain Yushchenko zasrat you idiot .... same as Bandera of yours!!!!
Registration Date 27.11.2012Yavny TROLL!Your boss gets millions of Americans, and especially the Poles, and what have you?We all understand that the reunification of the Empire and the revival of the Great West does not want to, that's your boobs and sponsored.Once all in vain! ))))))) Your host dies and falls apart, who will give you the money?All these movements Russophobe artificial, with no money, they fall apart.And without the U.S. no longer turn a blind eye to the worship of the Nazis.
That's five years later my grandmother wither dick and it becomes grandfather
Zapadenskih zombies can not change, to be butcher is their inheritance ..))
Hitler tried to conquer the world, as a German colony, and the nation that inhabited the colonies were slaves to the German culture. But Stalin wanted to recapture the lands that have long been the copyright of our country and were lost vkachestve 1917 revolution including join Ukraine Western Ukraine and Lviv. Carefully read the story.
The first was batalyon Nachtigall and Roland, and they fought the Red partisans and SS Galicia was division under № 14 IT WAS Frontline Volunteer Division that fought at Brody Basil! scoop taldychil 50 years that the Germans killed at Katyn Polish officers got out but the truth and who is now on your it? give an answer that same scoop made in our Lviv region from Moscow NKVD men disguised in the form of the UPA village Huta - Penyatskaya and it comes time to reveal both the Katyn
For tupih katsapіv-"Chronicle" axis scho Nestor wrote-"Glade is living on their own, as we have said, were of Slavic race and were named after meadows and drevlyans descended from the same Slavs and also did not immediately were called drevlyans; radzimichy same vyatichi - the kind of Poles. There were in fact two brothers at the Poles - Radim, and another - Vyatka, and came and sat down: Radim Sozh on, and he was nicknamed radzimichy and Vyatka their native villages with the Oka, from him were named vyatichi. "
Why the goat did not fight in the Ukraine and lived in skhone and stuck in Munich? All scum (present and past) is ready to serve any master with the West. And in erefii all the same. 
Typo in the title, not a torchlight procession, and fecal.
Stalin killed more people than Bandera. Remember the 1937 purge of thousands, millions of people by security officers beznevinno firing squad "enemies." Then solemnly posthumously rehabilitated by Khrushchev. A artificially created famine in Ukraine in 1932-1933 when the villages, the troops went prodrazvertki taking the last grain from farmers every penny. Stalin, Khrushchev reported cases of cannibalism, the 1932-1933 in Ukraine. And Stalin denounced his nationalist and reproached izlichnoy flabbiness.
and if we remove similar films about what methods implanted Soviet power in Russia and the other republics? as a civil war, as the revolution was carried out and what were the victims, and finally - as the royal family was destroyed, it will be clear to all who first sowed the 20th century, the terrible repression of non-human persons regardless of sex, age and state! Then why be surprised that these were also the response? and suppress one another and scaring people is pure propoganda!
and you were in Chechnya, navodyl'schyk fucking? You're at home, even Chechens fear .... sit in Siberia and its not rock the boat ...
Little beat these fighters Galic bad. They fight and then feared as punishers used against unarmed civilians.  In the warriors.)) 
you dirty zhidenok its snout and pig manure on most wipe and sucking dick with suction as the owner's all just kind of Jews' cattle dropped from age to age sucks dick nedorezanaya kike you scum!
Requires Bulo Rizat NOT Beaty 
WHAT A COUNTRY SUCH AND HEROES.
Benderasty ... one and pray ... Tipo visiting you ...)
take away their land Odessa, Nikolaev, Kherson, Crimea, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Luhansk, and all those who voluntarily want to live in Slavic brotherhood, and not with this Romanian-TURKISH-Khazar cattle OF Bandera. EVOLUTIONARY STAGE the victims of the Romanian-TURKISH-Khazar SEX orgies and perversion have not even come close to the level of developed Neanderthals. OUR SACRED DUTY OF RUSSIAN save humanity from this genetic garbage!! Great glory RUSSIAN PEOPLE, GREAT RUSSIAN GLORY
Uh-huh! I originally identified as a Jew-katsap =))), but nothing sooner or later cleanse Europe of Jewish-Katsap.
Katyn near Smolensk, but not in Belarus (teach geography) and killed a staff of Polish officers by the police, not the elderly and children as Bandera in Belarus.And do not be blah about undercover NKVD.Of all people and country people could tell the NKVD from the western Ukrainian. Most of the villages were burned and not the Germans and Balts Bandera. Long live Belarus. 
Why not say that the NKVD in Lviv held the civilian population which is only a suspect in activism. there nebylo criminals! so why the NKVD killed their dick!? Germans and Ukrainians also stsuki lied to Nachtigal that massacre the Jews did! PPC was going on!
A Vedic teachings generally unscientific garbage.
PS What allowed them some time poosuschestvlyat relish their dream, bending everyone wanted to captured by German forces. However, it soon turned out that Deutsche Fuck Ukrainians with their national ideas, and the Red Army and began handing out fresher neillyuzornyh pizdyuley foshystam and all sympathetic.
Wafer Turkish Dicks, ukroparashnik
fool maskalsky --- owls and your power ebala so you did not guess. pensioners used to receive power over the years - and suddenly the power was changed. boas you this fat, asshole. Well you too shit in comments, pizdyuk nedoebany. dick with retirees - I'd agree with him --- normally acknowledge that you Staley under Stalin, repent naplyuyte on it - and swear the new government. and will continue heroes --- by chance. 
Ukrainians, Belarusian, Russian, this triune Russian nation!
something? horse - a chair, twenty-eight?
We are with NATO on the road, and 7 percent of the population tyagnybyka support and it's not him, not him, someone else will, it's a real distortion of history, our common glorious history ...
Soviet soldiers, who allowed abuse to local, subject to punishment.Known case of Konev brought down the line 40 people trapped by violence and robbery and ordered to shoot them. Berlin resident E. Shmeer: ​​We Nazis said that if they come to Russian, then they will not have "swamp rose oil." It turned out quite differently: the vanquished people, the army which has caused so much misery Russia, winners give food more than we gave the previous government. 
I could never understand the pride of the nation. As for me, pride must refer to something which you yourself attained, not to what was an accident. Be Ukrainian - is not a skill, and fucking chance. You do not say "I am proud that I was born on May 16," or "I'm proud of predisposition to colon cancer." So what the *** are you proud that you are a Ukrainian rosiyanin or other trash?
debilushka you indeed telling the truth that the fish is not meat toupee not Ukrainian))) and you fucking svidomy crest, that you head on that forehead, I'll suchenok You can complete the list of only 118 cause noise which consists almost entirely of your Bukovina noobs! you said that the hero oznochaet Nenko Ukraine Shukhevych ordinary policeman?! ))) And a read about Bandera materials Nuremberg trial testimony of Erwin Stolz, historian cocks! and teach history not fables svidomyh morons!
zaebeshsya wait
Let's look at what stories are you talking about Bender.You were taught at school to think of party patterns Makhno - skunk, Bender - traitor Petlyura - cattle, And for those who do not like tacos stories came black Volga and vanish into thin air. How can you say this if we do not make sure that Owned Benderovtsy, Makhno, Petliurists committed these crimes. You have been given information as meat hungry dogs and you do not even smell it and suddenly it is poisoned!
-cuts of one-sided propaganda infa. The key phrase, for a free Ukraїnu.
You have to cut a fag ukroblyadskih like wild dogs. KIEV - RUSSIAN MOTHER CITY, sebalis fucking pissing out the invaders. Russia centuries equip and invested millions in the land that you stole from us, and for us now zhiruet account. Who built the Odessa? RUSSIAN EMPEROR! Who took the Crimea? CATHERINE THE GREAT! Who liberated Kiev from the Poles? Alex first! Almost all of Ukraine - is a Russian land, except the west, which is Polish.
The truth hurts? Maybe there is another positive information?
Ukraine1488, you have a strange name - 1488 - the year when the Reptoids appeared on our Slavic lands! and then, and Ukraine was and all of our ancestors lived in Russia!
NATO bombed Serbia because of stupid vydumanyh occasions, it is necessary to bomb fUkrainu!
Well, if not forever ... And what better or Tyagnibok Yushchenko? Only on the hatred of Russia Power will not build ...
Bandera killer of civilians
Yes, you can repeat your numbers for selected regions to a thousand times, it does not change anything.This is a drop in the ocean all over the country.So you can focus on the language situation for each individual house in a village. This is ridiculous.We now can take exams in Russian, but it is not normal.In France, too, once in the regions had different languages, and is now everywhere (highlight, like you), only French.They were working on this, and here's the result. We will have the same picture as the fair. 
Bandera is a shame Ukraine
what a fucking state? it proplachennymi fag Galicia.
PPC crest on my easiest to manage! they are so impressionable! Bandera sincerely believe that fought for Ukraine))) 
And this is liquid only their fucking jews says.
suck dick in his masters Bender and Jew Masons!!!! :)
, Why such "masters" do not have to help but instead must be protected from them, our people, to protect our people from the thieving bankers and their representatives in the government, and we must protect our very earth from those who want to organize their nuclear svalki.i is necessary to protect our habitat from uninvited guests dirty immigration, drug sellers and religion.
and slaves do not give a good education and to give religion the cradle (for your brainwashing and submission) and then give the Nazis (to gospodam had something to say to cover up his theft). moreover, sometimes they need to protect their plantations from other predators. but they themselves nor their children will be sitting in the trenches -
Bandera Nazi henchman ... It is necessary to demolish the monuments, and for no reason shit shit and stick to a piece of paper with the name of the Nazis - it will be a monument, which he deserved. And do you "bendery" ohueli you no, you have always been and will innym state. It has long been necessary to separate the South-East of the Centre and the West, and even then his fascist monuments zastavte though all of its territory. Death of Western Ukraine! Glory to South-East!
Come on, it's time to milk the cow, the village is not hewn. You elections are rigged, opozitsiyu, young guys, ideologically! packs are put in jail, the words do not give a say ... Ata sitting here and we huyami oblazhivaesh, well, you did not dolboeb?
check it out. Maximum 3 thousand prisoners. Although it is a tragedy. But certainly as nationalists shit, it's even the Germans resented.
The same thing about any other country I hear every day.In the U.S., the level of crime in general say the highest in the world.External debt, a separate issue.He lived month-manhetene so much homeless, I have in my life where ever seen.About black-quarters of a separate issue, where every day (!) armed clashes between police and local, mostly minor (!) adolescent common thing!
Again Nazi horde.
Bandera glory! Glory Yushchenko!
Yes do you want to live on their land. You can even give a shit in the main square of the city. I don't give a damn. A Bandera butcher and murderer of civilians and with Hitler, he is in one pot in hell is heated!
Wait, I do not see the logic in your joy. These guys are in favor of Tipko, which was for the Nazis? Who burned the Jews. You're like a Jew? Why are you so happy?) Nobody face in the shit do not dunk, but you yourself clearly Macau.
See videos of Sergei Calkin --- Russian national idea-three parts, What to do?, Who is to blame?-Two; Evolution without weapons! Forward to the future! A new race! Why Putin condemned Russia for the Russian or four parts! Effect Culkin!  
Bandera Tse fucking German zradnik.
I did not make any generalizations, dear.I have business associates in Lviv, great guys, good people. And out of all the post time allocated exclusively okafeshke station.But for some reason no one is paying attention to the main message of my post: I do not need to impose by force of heroes who so for me not ..What happened? - "Young mistress-ofіtsіantka" Zroby viglyad scho nіchogo not rozumіє. We left, we had time to spare, and the relationships to find out more boorish "lady"?
Of the bandits and murderers, five of us who know how to attack one or plunge grinding back, obtained lousy fighters that the division Galicia and proven. When it came to the real thing, Galicia was destroyed in the first battle, and became famous only killing unarmed. Though I am half Ukrainian, but I wish that the Ukrainian people are miserable, cowardly characters.
Film - lies gebeshnaya 
Europeans call Bandera accomplice of the Nazis.Yanukovych will soon put everything in its place.And it will be interesting to hear cries of Georgians, when Ukrainians recognize South Ossetia and Abkhazia :) And it will happen is the maximum for a year :))
... Sailed ...) For him, the news that Ukraine - is the historical territory of Great Russia ...) And you cares, as close to the Bulgar - still good neighbors ...) But do not be shy, we always Druganov Bulgars were, I do not know why you're so snapped ...) And yes, you're a refugee ...)
To each his own! You-pray!
ty poor Katsap azіyat. In short, it seemed in the yak Reich, NEDOLYUDINA. Pokidok i smerdyuchy azіyat.
should react as relatives tortured NKVDshnikami fathers, mothers, wives? and ask the author of this opus - why he did not investigate for which they were in at tyuome Lonskaya people arrested, who were then executed, leaving one? and for what? These were political arrests, when just two years of his rule (1939-1941) the authorities have managed to work against their own people, the people of this government was ready zagoryzt teeth! but the author savors the investigation is not rasmartivaya reasons!
the NKVD than you do not like? the fact that the moral monsters - Bandera caught? :) You may think that among NKVDshnikov Ukraine were all Polish Tatars, Jews and Russian? )) Drip in the archives) of Ukrainians in the ranks of the NKVD in the Ukraine was not less than the others ... Famine arranged by your personally Stalin? This field also engaged Ukrainians :) So hello them to pass a flaming :) about Stalin generally recommend: Dmitry goblins Tufts about Stalin. 
Mlechin fellow, told the truth about this nits and a coward Bandera.Posylalmolodezh to death, and he drank beer and ate sausages in Munich.He himself did not go into the forest, her ass Beach.
Death to those who incite hatred among the Slavic peoples!Death to the enemies of the Ukrainian and Russian peoples!!
Examples of good examples and takix darkness.In your so Jews all your finances and predumali?They lived up to the people and well traded and no Jews.Jews were only self-enrichment and ruin other peoples.The very essence of the Jews is okkupitsiya and enrichment at the expense of other nations.Look far for examples of no nada.Who is the one here in the CIS billionaire or a millionaire and almost 100% of them are Jews.Is liquid but you do not laugh until you get there soon.
BITCH that killed Stepan Bandera IS KGBESHNAYA beast! 
Who taught you this rudeness?
This is not the Ukrainians, Galicians, long isolated from the whole Russian. According to statistics, in the east of Ukraine only 12-14 percent of Russia is negative. Well, according to "Gallup" to 5/6 of the population the Russian language is more convenient.
So you just have nothing to add, then you are the one squealing like a pig .. so do not worry, we are used to treat Katsap how to lower scattering .. just you)))))
I was fighting in the Avganistane and seen a lot. People had to fight for an independent Ukraine, not the Ukraine in the Soviet Union.
they are just bad people, brother
Communists killed represirovali Millions of Ukrainians, Ukraine has experienced three hunger 1920 ,1932-1933, 1946-1947. Total killed ten-million Ukrainians of Stalinist repressions. So I understand those who have sided with Hitler. They did not do it because they like the Nazis, just for them Stalin, Lenin had the same theme OCCUPIERS - even worse. Bandera may not saints but they were much better than the communists and the NKVD troops, better than natsysty
Certainly saw, though certainly not on the scale of wild capitalism that exists in the CIS. What about integration into European society and joining NATO / EU are two different things. In Freedom aware that that is Europe of the 21st century. In addition to the program documents there's nothing about the EU accession.
Throughout oblsti Ukrainians about 60% (ie Most of). But you know what prikrasno Ukrainians in Lviv and Ukrainians in the Odessa region is essentially one people, but look at the country's course of its development, and to many others we have different (and sometimes radically different). What does it mean to adapt? There already podstroelis for teachers from kindergartens to high schools are their subjects in the Ukrainian language, all documents and so also lead to the Ukrainian. While many here speak other ...
YOUR ensign Ganebny I. ZMOCHENY in POLSKІY NEVINNІY KROVІ. SHELTER ZHІNOK, DІTEY NEMOVLYAT.VI NOT SHANUЄTE GEROЇV Til'ky VOЄNNIH ZLOCHINTSІV.Pid COURT BANDITІV W UPA. Got KOZHEN RIGHT VIZNANNYA SVOЄЇ RELІGІЇ, KULTIVUVANNYA SVOЄЇ TRADITSІЇ ALE Mauger NOT TO LEAD TO VIKONANNYA ETNІCHNIH shelled SO THAT YAK ON Bulo WOLYNIU ² in Lviv. Shame BANDYTOM W UPA!!
the people of the host country, the election chooses not kings, and the workers, and they should demand of the program by the protests, in civilized countries.
Baits pimple on the ass of Europe, do you think that in Kazakhstan to the Russian are better? Although no public claim no. if you look in the box and what do they think of cattle, and that does not do ... you take leave and drive through the RF drive and stupidly uzhasneshsya, and realize that a little bit and start to croak, although 90% of the CIS is croaking and believe it is far closer than a brother "OCCUPIERS", as well as the receiver of the USSR is the RSFSR future of Russia as debt and other problems, but still breathing without wheeze.
Bandera slop dunce! Costumed clowns!
Ukroblyadsky online military scary scary straight! ahahahah fag ukroblyadskie only on the Internet and can vyebyvatsya) And as it comes to reality, directly to Putin to make minetik for gas ahaahah pitiful animals you ukroblyadi.
Stinking filth. The youth of a drag eblan not understand what you are doing. 
"German leaflet against the OUN and nationalist guerrillas in June 1943. Ukrainian people! Would that you have ruined these Bolsheviks and national masked conspirators? Would that your women, children, young and old Your victim brutes? Remember the destroyed church estates and cultural values, renounce their enemies SWNTs can never protect the national interests of the Ukrainian people. OUN and Bolshevism is one thing, so they must be destroyed!
Only Jews can, when in fact nothing to say go to insulting MOTHER. Jews .. because people are not like you
He pidaryuga. He nedrochit his picture, he turns it into a tube and pushes himself in the ass)))
Vlasov was fighting for the liberation of the Judeo-Bolsheviks. It would also be rehabilitated as a national hero. 
This is arrant nonsense and arrogance, not knowing the action! We Rusichi than Russians (mixed blood). And Ukrainians appeared much earlier than the Russians. Nefig carry old nonsense that the Russian people have everything. You no one should. In all your troubles to blame but you.
so let it luchshe than the Ukrainians say, "Muscovites"))) And then Putin nekak not accept that Ukraine to Europe otdalyaetsya))) 
Your filthy Konovalets and Bandera are dead dogs ignominiously as lousy and useless. Masterfully destroyed them intelligence, is not it? One brought the candy to eat, and their explosives. And another in the face blew cyanide. They licked the Germans, the British, and your heroes perished, perished ingloriously. 
ugrofin - it's your dad, crappy saloed
Speaker really.Klasssika!!!!!!!!!
and Russian as always that Ukraine is not as shitty as we would like)))))) fucking comedy television and not have one gum taxis)))
Who are you an agent of the FSB? :)) If so it is passed on to all that kissing my Georgian Dicks ;)
Wiped monitor. And just what difference that we have here?)) Nothing will fine) You capitalism and even gangster my friend, your GDP per nasseleniya sorry and that is with the potential in the country))) total corruption in all spheres, corruption courts Caucasians you pay tribute and to bend your in your former cities, power and glamor grandmas idiots PRESENTS now the Russian culture. And also "forgot Eid ul-Fitr." And that's all right?)
this is ass fagot bitch poor Poles life gnoili zapodnuyu Ukraine and then they forget about it say
YOU BITCH BENDARA What would YOU negros in the ass to hell fucked NIMECHIK HRENAV FOSHYST OBOSRANY YOU, YES wakes GREAT RUSSIA,
None of us will not do anything, so can only think commie that will do everything for him, and he will live happily ever after. Easy entry into the European Union will need to carry out the law, to make an independent judiciary, adhere to European values. And you build with Kazakhstan and Belarus second USSR and live in shit, I do not mind. 
Yes, I take a shit who it thinks that over the hill))) is important to me is my opinion, not the Germans, and tembolee yours Katsap obosratye.Here you are a pussy, so know the measure. Break ... into two parts ... I'll see you right grandson Vanga, clairvoyant female genius. Well, well, look who else will fall apart. Over in China, over-population, you will soon have fun, all you kitaesy gallop otebut should it ever be known, and their 6 billion asses burn you will remember my words)) on a carcass katsapskuyu over 10 cocks in the ass. So wait there.
ahahahahahaha
You zombie nerd brainwashed. Read a book O. Rossova "myth disguised enkevedeshnikah ...", there are all the documents. Try to understand the information on to their tiny brains. Your characters - animals, subhuman, who carved in Western Ukraine and corpses filled the wells. Special group of prisoners ounovtsev NKVD used to track down the other scum.
What's stopping you to have 4 children, named some Dziuba and together with its neighbor Ukraine Stasiuk proclaim independent? Do, and will enter the history books marked "FAIL"! )))))))))))))))))
stupid and funny - it's you, and even uneducated as boots. UPA - a Ukrainian army that killed the same, that the German, Russian invaders and that we, Ukrainians did not distinguish what the occupier better.There were units that fought in the German army (such as CC Galychina) and in the Russian invaders, but we had to fight on two fronts-against the Russian and the Germans, so it is logical that the Ukrainians were on both sides of the trenches.But how to explain the millions!! Vlasov's army, against whom they were fighting?
Hey, young people! You lumpen or children of Ham? Communicate in normal language, reading disgusting!
This is not a fraternal peoples, one nation.
yumarist and that you, by God! Oh come more jokes raskazvyyvay! eeeehh! love to confess!
and slaves do not give a good education and to give religion the cradle (for your brainwashing and submission) and then give the Nazis (to gospodam had something to say to cover up his theft). moreover, sometimes they need to protect their plantations from other predators. but they themselves nor their children will be sitting in the trenches -
You order in his country can not bring you where you to Galicia, Poland? Yes, and shoot ...
mozhu Writers in the language of the soldering iron 
Well ... are you a zombie in this holy believest ... ) A very simple people voted :) Here you among family .. nobody voted? Grandpa asked .. Grandma :) And then tell us how their Ukrainian blood boiled, and they messed bilyuten to Stalin - tyrant trash did not get:-D
And finally-SS Division "Galicia" ("Galicia" was not, it was written in the name of transcription) has been involved in two armed clashes with units of the Red Army, "heroic" battle at Brody, against 60armii, 1 Ukrainian Front, more precisely, against 23str build. and in Slovenia (by coincidence back against the body).Brodsky boiler result is known to all, the almost complete destruction of the division (more 11tys people), absence without leave of the battlefield (sometimes rotami), cases of desertion.
Go and look back bitch ..Dentists come ... baby!
Bandera drank Yadu. Ha-ha-ha! Dog - a dog's death.
Reasoning minded people ...
Th in Ukraine does not have outstanding individuals except Hungary Bandera? lol. It would be better to glorify Taras Bulba.
Minister of Poland who Ridicule Ukrainians - it is a peaceful citizen?That's who killed BanderaNatsisti and kommunsty - is that innocent civilians?yes you just have no conscience!
And it is true that he was in custody loved cats hands break apart? Okay that Russian hated, well, cats that he did wrong?
fucking turned on, and turned off dizlayknul, obynchy nonsense ros.tv
I was recently in Germany and saw how "finished off" the Germans live, so if you compare with the victory of the Russian kotoyre live in Russia, worse than animals, so it is still a question, it's better to be with the Russian victory that devour everything in sight, as infection or live with the Germans in the civilization and prosperity.
You're done for ueban! Russia came up with Peter 1, and before that you were the "Muscovy." You do not even Slavs, you Russified threaten Finns who have forgotten who you are light in the booth had :)
Bandar butcher so despise 99% of Ukrainians, Cho you dyvishsya
Filmushki you look like "Dumb and Dumber", not this false propaganda. Where are your brains washed residues make any conclusions? How do you know anything about the people and times? And it you want? As we say: Hoch yomu kіl on golovі bellies - not dіyde! Yomu in ochі spit - vіn obіtretsya, say dosch yde.Woodpecker, Dalby on, no brains - will not shake.
Eva will laugh, but I live in the west of Ukraine and even in our town is a monument to this "hero" is not all it is to be made, but the time comes and the children in the school already tell that this is a hero, do you think that will speak to your children those who were driven from an early age that this champion of "freedom" in 10-20 years?
The whole world, except the Soviet Union over the ambitions of Hitler, too, at first laughed until German boots are not started minting quick time on the Champs-Elysees. fascism thing is this: if it does not choke and do not push it every day will only get stronger and bolder.
Mudofel ... you decided to dohtor play? Diagnosis benderastiya you put yourself - and that's taking the pills ...) 
Earned Poles. It is named for 1919.
So many people, so many opinions!
Fascist bitch. We are up to you bastards, get there.Ukraine in the Customs Union, Poland, Galicia, such dogs as you just shot.
I am Russian, and unbiased perspective moguskazat that Galicia was quite successful division is not an example of the same ROA. And if you look to the Ukraine at the time, the choice between the red plague and Nazi Germany is not quite simple and even equivalent. Well chosen someone Galicia and what? I would give these veterans a pension as a veteran Wehrmacht byloby is fair enough today, they fought for it. 
Yes, Stalin was Georgian and he otebal throughout Europe in the ass. Shas pleased katsap? I thought you Pole okazivaetsya provocateur katsapski I fucked your mother.
@ Olegmes9 I am Ukrainian
"And Bandera killed far more Ukrainians than Russian.But the point is that the current dream of their followers and the physical destruction of the Russian people under the guise of anti-imperial ambitions of Moscow. I'm sure most of them dream of the guards in the concentration camps to work for Russian, as was the case Hitlerites (read Alexey Vorobyov). "Who is it still here demagogue? : D 
What other "communist"? You're very sick and do not understand the difference between traditional and kommunyatskoy? That is, the Bolsheviks fought with Ukrainian Communists? You though the school is finished? Me too "politician" :))))))))))
Yes, I do not dream, but on the contrary .... Kursk, Bulgaria, lame horse, forest fires, Crimean, North-East, Chechnya, gangsterism, alcoholism, drug abuse, theft, poverty, standard of living in Africa ... and you I talk about America that it will soon collapse. Themselves would not die ...
In autumn 1941 "Nachtigall" rewrites to "Shutsmanshaftbatalon-201" and in the SS division sent to fight guerrillas Belarus, where the captain is Shukhevych Wehrmacht until the end of 1942. The command of the SS division was especially noted diligence punitive this battalion, their inhuman cruelty in the destruction of thousands of civilians and the destruction of the organization Shukhevych distinguished Poles and Jews, whom he ordered hanged, shot, burned and torn to pieces.
Glory to the Heroes!
@ Nekatsap7, Chronicle - a dubious document of dubious origin.
Are irrelevant, Lenin and Stalin, and Bandera not be either actual or not relevant, since he is the hero of Ukraine.What does the "looks askance already toward brotherly Russia" if Russia with its imperial shovinistichnymi and injection, gas and customs union (and you can add comments of your fellow countrymen) is not communal, well, this one, and the second is what they look askance?The fact that we are reviving their heroes, teach history, and generally just remember and honor the heroes?
From dunce hear :-) And by the way, I live in the city of Prague where such eblan as you know KDE UTB and learn to write goof :-) Russian Ukrainians Belarusian brothers!Bandera and his fans and piderasy pridateli!
Share a link in the "Russian unity." Link within 12 hours of the administration has been removed.An hour after the removal of the links I came out of this group "Russian unity." Crimea. Theodosius.
I had to leave so he left Hitler to their prigolubit
"Erected designed and built mills, hydro, power", the engineer, who <wbr>-s or avoid reprisals, or re-trained.I'm not talking about them, and about the people.And Ukrainian always Ukrainian language is not to blame.Or Yevhen Paton was a Ukrainian, and became the "Soviet"?)))))
their crimes. explain everything. quite objectively. and zasranaya Rush - a country of liars. here do not strive to admit. and always has been.Katyn admitted accidentally by Eltsinu.no Mascali many still think pussy obratnoe.ya --- perverted even the beginning of the story --- why not before Rurik princes? destroyed the old order letopisi.byl collect ih.i are Germans - who were ordered from above. tamuzhe the Romanovs unclean - they were not allowed to sit on the throne --- SBI and istoriyu.i cleaned up, not once, 
All Russia went from Novgorod, Kievan Rus was established after the capture of Kiev Oleg! In Kiev, at the time ruled by the Vikings. It is time to study history for important sources and not according to Tyagnibok and his National Socialist Party!
Yes, you do not dick us bryakali with your independence, I do not know what you rinse there brains in the local media, but Russia has long dick on the Ukraine.
According to the German command and Russian historians estimate the total number of representatives of the peoples of the USSR (within 1941), which were part of armed groups on the side of Germany (Wehrmacht, the SS, police) were: Russians - more than 300 thousand Ukrainians - 250 thousand Belarusians - 70 thousand Cossacks - 70 thousand, Latvians - 150 thousand, Estonians - 90 thousand, Lithuanians - 50 thousand, the people of Central Asia - bl. 70 thousand, the North Caucasus and Transcaucasia - up to 115 thousand
when same-Russian Ukrainians will live a normal life? probably never! their toad presses! Let the movies of their "heroes will be removed." As Polish soldiers rostrelyali which Hitler retreated and Russian surrender. There were several thousand officers like. And thanks tovaritsu Stalin for our "happy" in '30, but he did not know the details of her aunt roskazyvala starting from 1918. Korotche film is requezt party United Rosiya :)
1942? hmm .... and for Bandera in 1941 was in the concentration camp of Sachsenhausen nemtskom?
You cho quite scrip went Ruska and Ukrainian brothers forever.Lawlessness sponsiruetsa EU. We are all relatives of God "kind of" not Jesus.
Blyaya, glitches!
And they thought that would be on par to the Germans? For them, it is prepared for slave share! Dogs dog's death!
benderovkaya bastard, filth, and the enemy of all the Slavic people!
Ir ... and I like the way you danced last year 7-40 at festivals of Jewish music in Lviv! ...) This year you plan to go to the dance? Dance ... better, not to offend the elderly ... 
Moron, you go on dick with their advice. Lions nice city, but I'm not going anywhere Dnepropetrovsk :) And this is for you: watch?v = GiolXfUvE8EPosmotri who as part of their group, can understand why :))))
signature is good "leader URKainskih nationalists" and I do not think, that this bug))
Schaub did he fuck up your fucking Bandera! Gandon from Galicia!
cheap pre-election PR for someone, though controversial fame .......
Released? you ask my grandmother: German came - chose the eggs, milk, Russian came - the last chicken and cow led the Russian army in the West, Ukraine is not a liberator but another invader was ... and the fact that you the story twisted hammered into their heads that is another matter ...
yes motherfuckers, Crimea and return sevostopol, uebki fucking 
Jews will gather from svolota Russian lands in Ukraine? Well then you are not fit to scream "glory of the nation," and "the glory of the Jews." Look, what emerges slogan: "Glory to the Jews-gate of death." With the slogan of the entire nation will be on you ... spit. 
But I was not worried about you.But you tell me? Why would you, a simple Russian Siberian peasant, Chechnya? Especially since Georgia and Ukraine? What interests do you have there? You are at the order ... and move about Bandera, who told you that they were killing Jews? nebudu scoop!
Russia - the successor of Kievan Rus', the same as Romania - the successor of the Roman Empire (Romania)
slyshish you scum debility you! You know you're about Bandera bezmozgaya thing!!
Chudovo! Dyakuyu
Okay, right now you only need to find my shoes, put on shoes, to go to the fridge for a bottle of vodka. But we must not forget to feed the tame bear. Then nazhrus, observed and go to sleep right on the site. 
dual citizenship in the Russian Federation at the moment no, this is my wife stayed a citizen of Argentina.
in Polschі pid hour Chempіonatu svitu, riots provoked Poles, their inadequate. Ex-vbivstvo ofіtsera FSB Oleksandr Litvinenko and who said that he was killed we are, where the decision of a "fair" trial in London? etc. and that, etc. that the arguments in there?
We are Russian great nation of drunks and prostitutes, and none with us razed))).I like for my mother's side were all prostitutes and of my father's an alcoholic))).
Sources have? History is written by the winners - do not forget my friend .. And they brainwashed! 
And what is Russia's foreign policy, particularly in relation to Ukraine, full of love?
and the Jews and the Poles and the Russian did not kill? recruited him while he was holed up in Berlin, so short-sighted and the poor for a povesti.dibil in Bandera and citizenship that was the Austro Hungarian. brainwashed by the Germans as Goebbels. But Hitler is Germany for war. and Bender dream to become their slaves. for them you nizzhaya race. 
I would add: "Bandera-Hegrrrrrroy!<wbr> -!'
.... Based on your words .. before our eyes in the Western Ukraine a brand new nation - benderast!
I always do, when Russia and its henchmen "hit" as a person can be considered a hero who fought for the freedom and independence of their country, and how can you not love the Bolsheviks, because they brought the collectivization, the abolition of private property, the famine-genocide <wbr> - and e, the extermination of the Ukrainian culture and rossifikatsiyu.How is it?))))))
Actually, there's the 4th option - it is not necessary to close all (by the way, Belarus was not closing, in particular, from us, because its products are purchased just us), but Sell Now the West is not worth. Well, actually, the best - it's racial and national equality.
Where did you get such information about someone who considers Russian mother and what it says? Ukrainian you no one takes away, and Russian, thanks to "Europeans" as you will soon become a kitchen language. You and you like it just erode. Let's introduce Russian as a second state and Balakai on his Ukrainian as you want!
SAMI will take - along with people - they hate Russian in Ukraine
Cossack mother - Crimean tatarin, descendant Temnik Mamaia broken Dmitry Donskoy. He served as the Lithuanians. Descendants went into the service of Moscow. Took the name Golitsyn. It's about whether I know the story.
most are just there to hold the torch in his hand) and finally can walk better with a girl and not a march to go ...
Ukraine to erase forever
And from whom and where he "ran"?You would have learned the Russian language, and then show off ... "Perebezchik" :)
Oh how interesting the author of "jumped" from 41go year 44y .. leaving the "behind the scenes" activities of the UPA, and their struggle with the red and the Nazis! Those events can not be embedded in the picture which created those who, in principle, can not understand what someone is willing to Ukraine to die and kill for your country! and in the nearly three years, and what happens is what these people will always be heroes. for not forgotten the SS Galicia, which Bandera has roughly the same relationship to Stalin Avtralii ..! 
"Echoes of War: Bandera (2011)" Chekhov Look at this!
The number of SS Division Galicia - 25 000Chislennost UPA - 200 000Chislennost Russian Liberation Army Vlasov - 1200 000Lozung UPA - Glory to Ukraine - Heroes fame.Slogan ROA - Meine Ehre hei <U+00DF> t Treue
20 years will be proud of Chechens Basayev.
Ukraine diverse country with so little netakoy teretorii.Different parts of the land was under the different countries.Sdes live a lot of people who speak different languages, have different customs, values ​​and beliefs, different characters and trying to get them all under one single large cap (tobish Ukrainise all) will be seriously rejected.And esle will come to power, freedom drastically worsen our relations with Russia. remember, we have it very large trade and supply of gas / oil
strange - zhurnalyugi about 30 minutes talk about pogroms against Jews and Russian, but then flickering in passing say that when they went NKVD shot all - all! who has been in prison for Lonskaya, then what was the cause reprisals. Well, it's like? and know whether the authors - I am sure that they know - chkolko bodies were found in a jail in Lonskaya which mutilated bodies were gouged eyes, broken fingers and cuts off, torn nails, mutilated genitals ... so you should have been addressed?
Siberian! I'm not even close to discuss what you have in Siberia! In terms of that I was not concerned. Why you are now discussing an independent state? We do not have a look. Very bad advice is that which you do not ask.Forget about us and it will be easier to live! The history of the teaching and its anti-heroes. And we like that with God's help ourselves to deal. 
I teach classes regularly.Excellence in shooting.A Russian is Finnish-Finno-tatarva ..The entire capital of the Rostov people ...Suzhdal capital Merya people ....Moore Capital Murom people ....Ryazan capital city of the people .... mAAskva Erzya, the capital of the people Moksel ...Glory of the Chechen people.Glory to Ukraine!
ragulyu nice ROBIT
- Interesting... I wonder if you make a genetic examination "crest" and "Moskal" as they will be surprised when it turns out that they are both Mongoloid finougry)))))) concludes NATSYSTY GOD .....
Garbage you do not carry it, and read science.What we fuck Finno-Finns.Finno-Ugric haplotypes inherent north Russia.And 70 percent of Russians have the same haplotypes as the Ukrainians, and this R1a1.With dick you grandparents, even if the chronicles, Russ founded Novgorod the Great.See the truth, not invent stories.
And you have divisions had? )) Funny you as I can see)) The National Guard only existed until 2000))) So before you write something Learn materiel. Divisional OWNER)))) 
I asked why ... - This question can be considered rhetorical, because you all with one voice paranoid hate Putin ...) One may draw parallels, but one must not forget that it has not completely drown Russia after Boris ... 
how you brainless robots slaves mokaley Stepan only raised against Stalin! rebellion and you Katsap slaves moskalskogo state historically you nomads for centuries until you dubbed pechernye animals!
Duck is there you want from us!If you do not care what you specifically hang out in similar positions and sparkles their chauvinism?Do not touch us, do not meddle in our culture and history, and will be all happy.Wherever you are first starting out and to * It happens to us.You will not, then you are not, then you is not it, and you call it care?In my opinion I have answered your question.Cultural and civilized, not like your countrymen (read below).
pay attention to the words of the master - Stepan Bandera .... decided that this was the best time to implement age-old aspirations UKRAINIAN PEOPLE! - This is the answer to all the wacky series zakazushnogo movie current Russian government and the FSB! Confirmed that Bandera Hero of Ukraine because he fought for the implementation of age-old aspirations of the Ukrainian people! for the independent state of Ukraine! with all the money do not have any relation to the fight, because it was adequate to the situation and time
The time will come, and all the Ukrainians will forget the Russian language, we'll remember that once a long time ago, we were united, from the Ukraine will expel Russian etc. Soon the time will come when you will Untermensch (mixed with Russian, Jewish, etc.). Again, thanks to politicians ((((
Just the whole world rests on the false, the people who fought for the truth disappeared. Ukrainians almost survived ...
I am a Ukrainian from Lviv. I have nothing against the Russian. On the contrary - those Russian with whom I had to deal - very nice people))) But I do not understand why the Russian Bandera so hated? Why Russia does not want to recognize those who fought for the independence of my country?Angliytsy come to Napoleon's tomb with flowers. I would like to Russian also came to the monument to Stepan Bandera with flowers) That would be really fraternally =)))
Shovels that Lee equalized? Come cook firewood for the winter, and dug bitch Bandera order to bylogde to hide, and then crush and did not notice before pridetsyakak squeeze as bedbugs.
"In any society of 3-5%, they do not make the weather."For the coup enough 3% of radical citizens, with 7% open sympathizers of their actions. The remaining 90% - just inertia ballast. The restoration of capitalism in the Soviet Union was accomplished in less than 0.1% of the population - the rest just agreed a confused babble leader.
So much of it German occupiers naubivala, funny fool? Do not compromise your idea of ​​his idiocy. "German troops and Russian invaders" - this phrase already seen your liking. But you're on discourse analysis, and have not heard ...So lout Bandera, read the beginning, who burned Khatyn, with people or types of executions in Bandera (burning alive in boiling water, sawing dvurochnoy saw), and then blather. 
1. Chaplain Kagan: "I can swear on the Bible that the graph Sheptytsky was one of the greatest humanitarians in history and the best friend that ever had the Jews. I say this not because he saved my wife, my child and me, but because it actually organized the rescue from imminent death of hundreds of Jews. It was a manifestation of true Christianity, love for our Jewish people. Sheptytsky was a saint, I'm not exaggerating. I - a professional officer, ...
Yuri pedryulka! And if you do not go to H. .. nd as well?
MDA VI assholes! DO NOT BANDERІVTSІ ROBILI! TO DIBІLNІ komunyakami PEREDІVALISYA In BANDERІVTSІV! I. ROBILI then VSІH BUT sight! MOSKALІ VI waved Til'ky breshet BІLSHE NІCHO ROBITE I. NOT!
I'm from the Kuban myself, so my store for other notations. Just do not about the struggle for independence, if that. Sitting in Munich, as did Stetsko Bandera and is very easy to cry for independence, podlizyvaya with the Nazis, and then the British, and the brains of powdering his people. I do not know who ounovtsy struggled, but now with the people they dealt very sophisticated. 
Lice ... caches feed - Do you call this "fighting"? You are now also fight, but for some reason the Communists in Ukraine still they rule, and bibikayut! ...)
Why would I say something to you to justify Bandera, if you blindly believe communist propaganda? My great-grandfather was a noble communist from Galicia and at Bandera was at Poland tyurme.But you and the stories. Facts do not believe it, because for you Bandera villain is undeniable istinaPoetomu that you took something useful for Russia, I say - loans business! I hope at least that business - useful for you not going to argue?Or, again, be the mother?
Germans have long priznanali that the UPA fought against them. This was said even the main German officer in charge of the Germans on the UPA. His name was Wenzel Dietrich. On YouTube has intevyu him. Who cares, just paste in the search: 2sqGPGTVuOE
zhidiv, komunyakami, moskaliv on Gilyaks ..
Hohloeban scribbles c 40 accounts to Russian from the south-west, which they renamed uebki dream invented Urco-nation did not notice their antics: proebyvanie nominal GDP / brow lower than in the Congo (IMF data for October 2012), the development of corruption just at this very Congo (Data Transparency-International in December 2012), and extinction at a rate that by 2050 will be 33.6 million (data from United States Census bureau / US Department of commerce for 2012) Russian from the edge! Do not make a mistake!
Bender - The hero without a doubt!
another zhidokotsabskaya garbage)) 
Hitler fascists STUPID ass licking for which he received the provisions
Haha, when you hit the Hamas rocket?Or you're not "the one" bus you come, you tell me the way it is the 12th Lyke delivered?
And by the way is not it never
Here again, taken from Wikipedia: According to the survey KIIS, primarily used to communicate the Russian language the vast majority of the population of the southern and eastern regions: Crimea - 97% of the population Dnipropetrovsk Region - 72% of the Donetsk Region - 93% of Zaporozhye region - 81% of Lugansk region - 89% of Mykolaiv region - 66% of Odessa Region - 85% of Kharkiv Region - 74% and as you Sobieraj forced to break these people or what?
And the data from the IMF and the special collection for the infamous traitors to outlying psevdostanovList of countries by GDP (nominal) per capita, International Monetary Fund 2011:53. Russia - 12 993 $ 58. Kazakhstan - 11,167 $ 85. Belarus - 5845 $ 107. Cape Verde - 3661 $ 108. Republic of the Congo - 3631 $ 109. Ukraine (PSEVDOSTAN) - 3624 $ 114. Swaziland - 3384 $ 116. Georgia (PSEVDOSTAN) - $ 3210
We still have at least cedars, and you shit car but ostentation wagon suchonok of defunct country.
Anu, try this kid bought or intimidated. It is for this believe them and believe in them even by their supporters. He climbs into politics grandmother hack? No, he will climb behead enemies of the people and the State. That this is no doubt. And what he is wrong from what?
Banderlog - eternal slaves, descendants of slaves from the slave mentality, worshiping at the moment evrolitsemu "big brother." And call themselves for some reason, "independent" .. but that's from whom? - Except that of Africans (Africans far to get them)
SS Division "Galicia", fought at the front with the regular units of the Red Army.Towns way SS divisions were two and one mixed.And in the Liberation Army Vlasov were 500 000chelovek!A Lokotskaya republic on the territory of the Russian Federation. (Historical note 
This is a controversial historical question, which you actually like me, are not adequately competent. But I think that this question concerns only the citizens of Ukraine. And I, as a citizen of Ukraine, I have every right to their point of view. I'm not insulting Russian figures, does not it? Just a bit annoying when they start to speak from behind a hill what to write in Ukrainian history textbooks.
And the Constitution and laws of the poor and bad tyrant Stalin, except that the people of that era who still lives they want to live in a time and not in the present about this part of your mate, not what is said, you are our historical truth!!! !
Give back the Crimea and other areas ceded to Ukraine totalitarian Soviet system in the famine. Or that, just can not do without Russian land and the Russian people?
Donetsk ships rebelled against nationalists, particularly the ultra-nationalist party "Svoboda" and some members of the Bloc of Yulia Tymoshenko. On behalf of Stepan Bandera, Jr., grandson of the "hero", and another dozen activists, including Yushchenko himself, filed appeal and appeal. 
such morons like you can not learn in 20-30 years our language --- but willingly climbed here, as in other republics. Well, they are surprised that they now do not want? see the brain does not veil.
Bandera - disgrace in the history of Ukraine. Bandera on a hook, all in a row! Scoop could not uproot you, cellar rat, so we will. Get ready for the creature.
Well at least you own razumiesh pishish what then? Shown were not rozumyesh)))
You do not understand - he is now free, and only now really went on the warpath, and the Zionists knew it and so spent a lot of money to prevent him to power but lost and now they KHAN
And just as the Bolsheviks came to power and has a grip on power coup in October 1917, taking the storming of the Winter Palace. And then shot the king and his family. They are heroes? They - the criminals.
The feeling that these will soon be called Nedobitko Bandera in Lviv street Hitler's
Stalin was not a Jew, do not carry it dull stuff, and do not think it harms you just go.
In Russia, the real fear raguley galitsayskih Mazepinkami pelted :-) :-)))
Little beat these fighters Galic bad. They fight and then feared as punishers used against unarmed civilians. In the warriors.)) 
Bandera for Russia was like Assange to the U.S. now.There, they rinse the brains of Assange, as you rinse the brains of Bender.Big Wash)))
Bandera was not a "Nazi collaborator." You're just ignorant and "shit" stereotypes. OUN was formed in 1920, ie for 12!years before Hitler came to power. Their goal Programmable methods have been developed and adopted, when Hitler had not yet created their own. SWNTs were fine game, using the Nazis for their own purposes, and those - in their own (as they thought). But with the fraud and the arrest of Bandera, the OUN-UPA immediately began to fight the Germans. A "kill" them, not people of German, Polish invaders in the West.Ukraine and NKVD killers ...
Poison weapon of women and Russians.
chevoto you confused. I do not go to your festivals.))) and the lions away. and that there Katsap on Jewish spree go?Yeah ... preparing to become a center for the "native" circumcision. ponimayu.sochustvuyu. But the king said medveput not ... mean it! 
in what languages? in Ukrainian or what? yah tries ... read. Long laugh. How do you know you did on a true story? USA you wrote it? TsRUshnye their agents probably with the Vikings came to Russia? and a documentary in the archives hide? precisely because Russia is not a third world country it can track their own history. Thank God there is something to remember .. And you tell peasants Polish and Hungarian, whose history began only in the 20th century have to read stories about themselves in other languages
and even insulting, that in his time Chingi3xan not cut all your ancestors, but your prararararadeda he just fucked in the ass
Raving lunatic!!!! 
and here zadrota replied ...
Stepan Bandera raised the question of an independent Ukrainian state, while others question was not even raised. Russian is still considered Ukrainians "wrong Russian" or "malorosami." Do not know the history of Ukraine and Ukraine believe that there is only 20 years since independence.
Division of corrupt bastards
... See the movie - "The Ukrainians - is Russian," and before you can reach the essence of your delusions ...
You Muscovites hildren nebyli bandgrupami troops and fighters were nezalezhnuyu Ukraine.So many years have passed and all Muscovites Bolshevist brag about their crimes against the Ukrainian people.
you damn how you killed Ukrainians burn in hell
Stepashka Bandera traitor, a coward, Nazi agent team "Abwehr" and "pi ... ar team" that killed civilians and looted it
But you did not answer. Are you ready for pondnyatiya national spirit to go to such horrific methods?
The fact of war, I do not deny it, I deny any version of events that the media trasliruemyh by Russia that Georgia.Conducted an information war and we should not take all the stuff that you pour through the screen at face value, it finally understand, I did not blanch!
In all countries that have emerged from under the yoke of russkobolsheviskogo, Russian pressed as the nits to the nail, it is not clear from what you've decided that you, Russian, Ukraine will be plastered with honey? Everywhere, in the Baltics, in Eastern Europe, Central Asia and the Caucasus - everywhere Russa gave the ass, we, Ukrainians worse? Just longest Ukraine was under Russian occupation, so the process of revival in Ukraine are a bit longer, rather than in other countries.
Tell me the story of Finland ... Tell me in Siberia and the Far North of the RSFSR Ridicule nations ... although yes violently forcing to learn and be educated. Vsnosit in everyday life and health changes, but then of course I agree with you, they were good to eat fish all year round rather than vegetables, washed down from the rollers themselves than sschelochyu, then yes it was bad, but you've noticed a few of them want to fight against the akupanta, tezhe Tatars did not hear to be seen.
Bandera nightmare of Russia! but the hero of Ukraine! I like Dr. Goebbels!
Fag and cowards! Just think - they are all traitors - a plan in action to Dulles zapadentsev stupid, they will ruin your hands zapadentsev Ukraine (the Zionists succeeded in Ukraine)
no occupation, stop lying. Well, at least have a bit of conscience. And if your heroes this sadist, you are not Ukrainians. You really traitors. After all, it does not happen that millions fought for the Union and your bunch of Independence. What nonsense.
"Cool, that Natsik-zapadentsev, the meaning of life is hatred of Russian, promising that in Europe many: aunts - ass wipe elderly German women in hospitals, the peasants - fuyachit in construction, carry all Mr. but from point A to point B and etc. ...) "You're still a racist, not just demagogue))) 
Yes, no question. Now everyone can "suddenly" the wraps. Cram what you want "documents" and forward.
Bandera has long been burning in hell, and this is an example to all who want to follow in his footsteps
It is not a hero ....)). Now deprived of the title of the fascist cock ...))
Movie muck! Completely distorted and inverted! Do not fidget not a word!
Russia nsche suck and how we
And since you are interested in from their relatives. Well. Hitler would have had a relative, it would be too much to tell, and then you would have said, as a man with a big heart can declare villain. So you're saying that there were 100 thousand ounovtsev And what so few went to fight for self-reliance?. And why only Galicia? Why is not the central or eastern Ukraine did not support the OUN?
Chock you stupid. The next time you're near a ravine Babeva - Look closely - for the main monuments, a hundred meters is a wooden cross. Come and read what is written there. At Babi Yar Nazis shot not only Jews, but also Ukrainian nationalists. Before repeating the communist zombies or Russian snowstorm, try to learn a little more from normal sources. To do this, just open your eyes and ears.
Suck my prick and not a nuisance, a piece of bacon, go to hell with the Russian channel, fucking scum!
Any Ukrainian can say - banderivtsi - our sworn vrazhin. You paskudina have no right to use the concept of ours! There's no one you and your rights are cockroaches.
Ir ...., and you let the German pub because you a passport in the nationality column written - benderast?
And their foreign policy - it is a full scribe. Guess once why in August 2008, they and the whole Ukraine, Georgia podderazhli? Believe me, they did it not out of love for the people of Georgia.
"Anti-Jewish actions of UPA ', provocation, which run from Moscow. This provocation. This is a lie that the UPA exterminated Jews. Tell me how the UPA could exterminate the Jews, when the Jews were in the UPA, served in the UPA? And I was familiar with the Jews, who served in the UPA. For example, I was familiar with Dr. Abraham Shtertser, after the war he lived in Israel. Was Samuel Neumann, it was pseudo Maksimovic was Shai Varma (pseudo Fiddler) was a Roman Vinnitsa, it was pseudo himself. Was a prominent figure in the UPA ...
there do not pass? there have already come you take the program of the ruling parties of Romania, and honor, it says, the return of the Romanian Bessarabia, Bessarabia, the term is understood the territory of Moldova Transnistria + + Ukrainian <wbr>-th part of Bessarabia + Odessa as the capital of the territory. Take programa The ruling party in Hungary there said that their main goal is to return all the territory of the Hungarian population. zakorpate now in Hungarian regional language? Sit wait until it is there only one. 
Banderlog you hear me ... Yeah Kaaaa
and now when we are Slavs trying not only to divide and drag to draw into a fratricidal war with each other then those who do not we friends and our worst enemies that we will destroy!
Yes no do not be Bandera Ukraine would find another in their view of "hero" and simply thugs and sycophants of the Nazis.But what if he's a hero was not sitting in a forest bunker and in a warm and bright apartment in Germany, which he is a hero to his orders when the Ukrainians were killed or burned them alive without sparing even the little children.
All of them have to shoot
rhubarb your future!
Hohlopuziki so silly and funny, especially when referred to the central streets in honor of the battalions SS ...) His idiocy they surprised even many of the form Europe where they had sought but not allowed ...)
It's you bitch - shame All Ukraine and you creatures Banderlog - scum and filth all over Ukraine with a fascist bastard Bandera!
It was a civil war for power and property. With the huge casualties on both sides. And Bandera killed far more Ukrainians than Russian.But the point is that the current dream of their followers and the physical destruction of the Russian people under the guise of anti-imperial ambitions of Moscow. I'm sure most of them dream of the guards in the concentration camps to work for Russian, as was the case Hitlerites (read Alexey Vorobyov).In general, they will be burned more than one Khatyn. 
Russian always were liberators - Finland freed from the Finns, Ukraine, the Ukrainians, Chechens from Chechnya, Georgia, the Georgians, the Czech Republic from the Czechs, afghan from Afghans ... And always the indigenous population for the conquerors were gang. Tell me the generation of Russian, which nebylo involved in military action. This is probably the diagnosis.
I hope your brother-in-law burn in hell with all the murderers, you cool shit ... pay for it and to this day ... you asked separatist? Well zhrite!!
Stepan Bandera - the hero as he was for the independence of Ukraine from the Bolsheviks. Western Ukraine at various times been under the yoke of Austria-Hungary, and Poland. Stepan Bandera dreamed of independence for Ukraine, he wanted to use the help of the Nazis as UPA did not have enough forces to fight the Bolsheviks. It was a strategic mistake because it Hitler had his own plans for the Ukraine. Sami Russian also collaborated with the Germans, a Russian division of ROA. Bandera's dream was realized in 1991.
Nationalists need to use only the death penalty, and spare them not.
Shut up, banderskaya litter. 
Pashel on dick.Heartfelt greetings to you from the Donbas
in Pukin Russianness how much I Judaizers
How about Adolf Gitrera? You think it is also a hero? I Bandera between him and I do not see much difference, just the main culprit against humanity condemned and mongrels that he waited there.
Bandera KISHKODAV MANIAC!
Slasher - marginal, its politics is not allowed here, and fascist Tyagnibok already be the main opposition candidate in the next election. 
Bandera zaebany dick and you banderovytsy pidery and pridateli!
Braga, bast, balalaika and non-Russian oligarchs!!
At Bandera had a wife and four children. But you do not dare pidaras desecrate the memory of a man who fought for the independence of Ukraine. Ukraine could be independent in 1941 when Stetsko Bandera and proclaimed the establishment of the Western Ukraine an independent state. Or even earlier in 1919 -1920 years with the creation of the UPR - Ukrainian independence.
I do not agree with you dear.Bandera, sounds good.BANDEROVETS sounds menacing.And the bastards, that Lenin sRalin, putler.Do you agree with that?
Famine in Ukraine? Soviet Union had only famine in this period ...
Zakazuha))))
Russian, and now from this budget does not fall to. gas in my house has never been. $ 1 billion per day output Yids west. weaken us section on the fictional nation
Apparently, you are in Russia, and some really were not. Just try to come somewhere in the North Caucasus and blurt out there, that the local people are under the Russian yoke. Given that this is Caucasians, I'm afraid to imagine what they will do to you for that.
Poland and Ukraine to the Russian! Fuck all sit down .....
In short, the whole point of sracha then reduces to watch?v = oavMtUWDBTM
suitcase station Rosiya
Then it all came to be forfeited proud Chechens.Glory to the Chechens.
If this is you I, I, unlike the Muscovites and their pads, I think all the time.And your gray matter to atrophy from birth.When I said that Stalin was a Jew?I said that it chock.Yes, there you bend the lumps, in Russia ...Tribute to history))))))))))))))
Name until the mid XVII Ukrainian language, as well as Belarus, the Commonwealth called the terminology of the time, "Russian Private yazyk" (in Ukrainian "Ruska mova"). In modern Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian philology for the language used names from western, old Ukrainian, Old Belarusian language. In the Russian Empire, the Ukrainian language was called Little Russian dialect of Russian "
And you're going to feed the worms after Galicia. Creature ...
little amplitude, not in that step.ya was not speaking to the Jewish Putine.on priznavalsi not and I do not have anything about it. was another recently, a couple of wand.
- Hey, let's mAAskal Way! Live on Chechen soil, svolochuga, yes isho way to give not want? (MAAskovskih sketches of everyday life)
My friend, as we are alive, we will not let him forget it taught my kids, Happy New Year!
"Right!
"In any case, they are promoting Ukrainian Ukraine and do not hesitate to talk about the crimes in Ukraine, Russia" - however, they are called Jews Yids, safely, "forgetting" that half of them are themselves Jewish. The same Farion happy sabbath day care, where the company deploys the slogan "You have a Russian name? Vertex name is Masha, not Marichka? Then you're a freak and shame of the nation, out of Ukraine. " At the same time, she herself also "forgets" that is named Irina, not Yaryna. 
You're beautiful, and of course his loot whores in the European Union. And the fact that it is not a prostitute crest. paradox. 
do not worry, you will soon pobachesh ... on May 9, next to the red flag veset ...
your campaign, because you're a fan stalina.a is the same thing)
You do not understand in the Baltic promoting Nazism and try harass his bleached.I'm from Kazakhstan to Russia is not exactly raring. Fery good to me here. Here in Europe, would have left. But not in Russia.
Tell me why did Russia pull force Ukraine into a customs union? If she does not care?
1.I am not a nationalist, not a Nazi, not a chauvinist, not fashist.2.Scythian descendants of the Aryans.Aryan culture was born in the Ukraine and went away to the West and to the East to India, Iran, ... 3.Teach the story itself.Not "hooked", and themselves moved after the burning of the Sich to existing ones.For those who have lived there for centuries before on his Ukrainian zemle.4.If you're a chauvinist, or any right, you probably know that "ethnic" comes first before "historic".It is not only a part of Russia were the Ukrainian lands.
Navіki Glory!
I CAN WITH YOU wager at least for millions, that the Finno-Ugric peoples do not dominate, it is a scientific FAKTY.YA answer you that the Slavs after sitting 80 PROTSENTOV.TY ANNALS POCHITAY.GDE NOVGOROD VELIKIY.GDE OLD OLD RUSA.POSMOTRI KARTY.UKRAINA (RUS ), with a side UKRAINIAN THIS LAND IS OUR COMMON ZEMLI.U we had a common country.
.. I never thought that in the interest of Bulgaria rzzhiganii nenavmsti Ukrainians to rskim .... ( Good luck to you Aziz ...
Totally agree with you! Goebbels rests.
you sho, and I realized that we, Ukrainians do not need your Russian presence in our country, where you are, the Russian invaders built their Russian schastechko our Ukrainian bones. We do not need, Ukrainians, or missiles, or space, no car industry, if our Ukrainian nation destroyed. In the world to launch do not need time to have to understand that.
Yes, it's the KGB KGB worked beautifully and skillfully. And one more butcher is one less for the second time.Bandera dog and the death of his dog. A Staszewski just became podkobluchnikom and the result on the face.For shmonku not only betrayed his colleagues and the people of the country passed recall Cleopatra ..
gay gay banderlohpishi Ukraine-gavnoa I will break your account
Ukrainssky HI HITLER!
With such Sabaki davideti Ukraine Yes Vainio assholes.Suffocate while within such a scumbag you will Haran svaih mothers and children pagibshih on Vine
Shield pobedі Zhukova wins when neznaya rostanovki and type of enemy troops sent tselіy kavleriysky housing forehead against Kleist's Panzer Army єto victory єto suicide
Will make sure that he come running to Moscow, jock fucking.
Perhaps that is why these people it is now so revered
A minute and earned his poor dumb country under the leadership of a thief and a bandit.  
CHІM BІLSHE VI nits MOSKOVSKІ writes NEGATIVE ABOUT Mogutnov UKRAЇNU TA PRO GEROЇV Ukrainy TІM BІLSHE VI VI argument SCHO NATSІYA squalid TA STEKLIVIH PATSYUKІV.GLORY TO VІKІ VІCHNA Ukrainy-hero GLORY 
redneck Polish-Hungarian-Romanian, ate bacon until people took Berlin. If not "Muscovites", Lviv, would be the Austro-Hungarian. 
I THINK POLAND UKRAINE AND RUSSIA should be friends, How much can you be an arena NEWS FOR THE WORLD
gavnische typical Kremlin.
If it really seriously examined in detail, it is just very Bandera helped by their actions of the Soviet government. Sat in peace in Germany and the OUN split. It could not eliminate. By 1959, his masters in English and German, he was no longer needed, living his worthless life in Munich. After his murder, was artificially raised, like a banner. 
And they did in high school pussy, so he does not like "Bandera" :))))
voobscheto Russian kaklov always fucked. teach history, asshole
Galicia-Volyn knyazhestvoVpervye term "Little Russia" appears at the beginning of the XIV century in the Byzantine Empire to define modern Western lands in the church and administrative practice. Galician Diocese, established in 1303, covers six dioceses: Galicia, Przemysl, Vladimir, Kholmsk, Lutsk and Turowski (that is, as part of the territory of present-day Belarus), which in the Byzantine sources called Little Russia ... I hope it is clear why the Little Russians ....
The degree of economic, social, cool <wbr>-turnogo development and literacy in Central and Eastern Ukraine under socialism in the 30th was incomparably higher than in Western Ukraine with the Poles. The OUN and were mostly rural folks, uneducated, not seeing anything but their village, which was imposed on the ideology of aggressive nationalism.
Your mother sucks the entire Caucasus
The fact that the film is made by special order immediately clear, and the camera pussy kike face, ugly bastard of our national heroes, Bandera Hero of Ukraine!
First learn to read and write the most basic (to start proper names, ie, names, city names, are written with a capital letter - Lions, for example.). And if I used the word in Ukrainian, it is because I like the language. From Lviv I talk on the work and just be friends, as they say, "for life." And how can you be friends with people that you are not pretty? About Bandera I form an opinion not in 40 minutes, so to think of you primitive
I am Russian and lard the spirit can not digest. Ukraine has the resources that it is not possible to steal. peoples of Siberia and the Far East you greatly curtailed. USSR is the state that has decided that feeds people the poorest and poor peasants and destroyed all x on the whole territory of who could and would work, Medium and prosperous farmer was able to work and would, he fed the people, but they were the enemies of the people ...
Bandera and his gang except the Communists and Fascists kill innocent Ukrainians. "Hero" - a killer.
"What about the integration into European society and joining NATO / EU are two different things" - sorry, but that's the same thing. Georgia is a good example. And the EU wants it to any friends. And if they were well aware of the fact that this Europe of the 21st century, they would never have supported Georgia.
Bandits do not you-"UKRAЇNTSІ," and you, Bandera! And do not you, Bandera, equate them, Ukrainians!
Subject, but only that limit a single case, and I think it is wrong.Revenge of the Soviet troops in Germany nemchuru I fully endorse.One friend told me how his grandfather instead of 3 days laid on robbery and festivals in Berlin, just go and shoot with PCA Germans, not looking on the floor, no matter the age.- And this is the right way.Right!His family was killed, took away the most precious try harass and kill him.Yes, they went there just to kill them!This is normal and correct.Similarly, the UPA.
What do you mean, the truth or what?And why would these patriots, honor Bandera, who hanged and shot their own relatives.And if they are patriots, why do they refuse to thousand-year history, and are conducted by Hitler's propaganda?
Re-read the top post again. Communicate bored, jaded phrases to ugliness ...
Now, where is the evidence that, after the 44th Costumed NKVD killing civilians? Just do not have a note about Riasnoi Beria. There it was a different story. NKVD change clothes, but fought exclusively ounovtsami. Another Lemish your hero was taken before he could utter a word, this is the group. And more food for thought. The number of SWNTs was somewhere 250 thousand, but voluntarily surrendered 70 thousand words voluntarily surrendered nearly a third. Question, why? 
Not that he always speaks the truth --- but in this case, when he should personally --- he says. and if in the Duma he yelled - as it is officially over and it can be judged. but do not touch because it veers. and the people assembled, and other materialy.eto you fuck so ask how - and who w Stalin shot?so anyone on the dick - I can not see, and do you see? and photos, and show me the grave, shit. A lists all poimenno.ne can, and that means not shoot.
Bandera Vlasov - HEROES motherfuckers
It has now become fashionable to say that to blame the Russian Communists. And your hohlyatskie vyblyadki like innocent and at the time were Democrats? Who do you want to cheat?
Females that person was killed. A true patriot, I wish this to us president.
touch you more like a throne and ask))))))))
How many of you have had these omongolevshie Mascali under the tail and ears? 400 years?
ebalo Zavala hohlyatskaya whore spermoglot bandermovsky
Bandera - Hero of Ukraine!
These details tell you your mother.You've got a lover of bestiality?Uuuuuuuu what you do.
I do not want to affect the normal sense of the Ukrainians. And to make a hero out of Nazi-perebezchika - is a complete lack of judgment.
And why would your gundyavy Lenin Popper army in Ukraine? 
Ukram, hike, finally demolished the tower of hatred to the Russian. Now I have a question for Ukrainians: you've got your 20 as Square, you want from us? Most Russians do not care about is you. But you're constantly putting on such actions and provocations, because of what the opinion of the Ukraine in Russia becomes more negative. What is the meaning of all this? Or is your idea of ​​a national-hatred of all things Russian? And this hatred to the prosperity of your country? 
Suck it carefully, amateur EUROPEYSKOGO dick, we do not compare ourselves with evrolitsymi tribes of the losers who always lost to us all the wars and all the land, and now live by robbery and murder of Arabs weak ha ha ha .. you yourself and worship evrolitsym think we have to respect them, you stupid creature? - Their turn comes again to Nuremberg № "2 - fuck them once again soon - we do not evrolitsye WE RUSSIAN!
by bloodline you like us, no we are not Asians and you know Russian and Ukrainian fraternal nations. and some creatures are trying to divide them for some reason, I noticed in the Russian Ukrainians no slander, and in Western Ukraine on Russian patriots you breathe fire! in the western Ukrainian schools do not teach love Ukraine and Russian books rewritten Goldeneye in the name only of Great Ukraine, it is a fact! those Ukrainians who refuse fraternity Russian and Ukrainian people, the ones you just badnerovtsy.
and Ukraine has never been a separate state was Russia (first Kiev and then Moscow) and Ukraine - East of Russia from the south, ie Ukrainians - it is Russ lived on the southern edge of Russia.
And besides, your Kiev Mongols put the cancer very quickly despite the 700,000 people ... what do you think, where you have the Crimean Tatars?A?From there, and you face mongrel!
Bandera killed Stashinskomu agent scoop and no Ukrainian patriotі did not kill єta info is in the sources zhidokremlyadey ask
All right to say we do not need zhidokratiya with Feldman Kernes Azarov who seized our land, and deserve only a bullet between the eyes. 
More about the neighbors - read Taras Bulba) neighbors did the people outskirts anything what would Okraintsy did with the people of these neighbors .. who started it - dick dig :-) But the point hikes reduced to one - yes cut plunder ... and succeeded in both Poles and tatarva and innocent "Ukrainians":-D 
It is interesting to know whether UPOrotye any other word except obscene? :-)
Enough to panic, imbecile.Hohloistori <wbr>-ki-long object of ridicule in the world.PSPiderastom Bandera was your grandfather in the Stalinist camp. :-)
VIdeo May 10hv. 54sek. (Zabuv skazati)
The name is not correct: Lions meets communist provocation cattle on May 9.
Sunishsya, your Moscow to the ground only match ... sit behind barbed wire and not pulled.
even goats street in Lviv-ssnahtigal-better to Hitler or Gimlerom called b-sho you povyzdyhali
Bandera - a bastard, it's a fact. He liked to strangle cats and steal money data Germans to fight the Soviets. Get over it's true. Do not pull the shame on you.
For these morons like you told me: "The arrest of Bandera Germans called" honorable isolation. "(Though an ally but dovydelyvalsya). However, he was not in the concentration camp. Until 1944, he was kept in a separate comfortable bunker number 73 in a special area of ​​Sachsenhausen camp near Berlin. In autumn 1944 Bandera was released (the Germans that the idiots that would liberate his enemy?) with honor and delivered to the villa belonging to the Gestapo, where he was consistent further cooperation. 
roundnose MacKay! except brehat - can not do anything!!
14 Division Grenadiere der Waffen-SS «Galizien» - a military unit had nothing to do with punitive units, used only in military operations and only against Cr. Army. Number of Ukrainians who wanted to fight against the Soviets, highlights the attitude toward the Soviet Union, the Stalinist-Roe punitive called in 1939-41. Very laugh word about ideological commonality with the Nazis - just imagine Ukrainian rural boys. 
BANDEPA GEROY.І ZATKNІT SVOЇ PEAKS MOSKALІ
I was born in the Ukraine!And who are you from, I do not know 
USA - this is a political nation, not national. United States - is the Tower of Babel, where Jews dumped peoples from around the world where the indigenous population, American Indians live on reservations. We Gauvreau of the nation-state, where indigenous peoples to decide their fate on their own and not under occupation.
Bitch, whore-deputka Lviv, PID German Staley!
So what? In Russia, they are considered traitors, but do not make them heroes like you.
Bogdan Stashinsky died five years ago in America. He could tell a lot about the Communists.
Hitler was a political figure of my relatives simple commanders UPA and then lie to them what they Sens do not go to the deputies did not have policies and participants themselves nenazhivayut politkapital 
We understand this is not Russian ... how to give in the ass and then etim proud.
In Russia, a monument to Hitler accomplice Vlasov has not found time to build, as you have fools in western Ukraine - Bandera.And on the streets of Moscow do not go with the posters of "Russian to the gallows," as you have in Kiev. 
Do not confuse the Ukrainians and those of the Nazis. Belarusian and Russian Ukrainians have always been brothers and these fashistiki, teretorii which has always been under Poland, Austria, Hungary, as always, put a spoke in the wheel. Stalin, they do not
Get out Jew-katsapske Beadle!
and now when we are Slavs trying not only to divide and drag to draw into a fratricidal war with each other then those who do not we friends and our worst enemies that we will destroy!
Gorbachev could have ordered the construction of a house of gold items - and no one would pisnul. Well pizdanuli --- here we have promised zolotyya sralniki put the proletariat --- that's 10 more than the set of the form that came with pionery delegations and shit. = fulfilled the prophecy of Marx as if.
goof
Leyba Mlechin known provocateur and all of Russia knows it. Judeo formula Sec. and power. Western Ukraine has always been the spirit of freedom, which is not able to break any Poles, Austrians do not, nor Germans nor Russian. Essentially put all in a row. Who would not come to this land will always be exiled, intruder ... Border areas, different mentalities, beliefs, and customs.Bandera regime brutality surpassed human norms, know old people say in their families. Still, they say Glory to Ukraine! 
"Sometimes cold, sometimes hot, sometimes standing, sometimes hanging"-here there and go, hypocrite!
Tymoshenko was fenced off so not that of Russia, and from the whole world! There is none, in general ... Where discounts on gas? I know that there are ordinary people are to blame, but the policy of the Kremlin still huevertit in Ukraine. Yes, we are brothers! but some are not full ... Honor komenty and see how many times we had to say "Ukrainians" and yet we all - slovyane ... with HC.
Do not want to tear the skin from Stalin for his repression of 1937 - the first year? How many thousands of innocent people have been sentenced to death and shot by the NKVD as public enemies.And then posthumously rehabilitated by Khrushchev, Brezhnev. And Stalin monuments still standing in Ukraine. Many wrongly believe his hero "father of nations."And remember the story of how the Bolsheviks came to power through a coup in October 1917. And then shot the king and his family. They are not criminals?
Galicia is not Ukraine, a rabble of shepherds and trash nationalities.
Pripezdok fascist
Bandera myths and reality.
Lenin, Stalin and Khrushchev - it's your real heroes. They created the Ukraine, not zalUPAntsy ... Muscovites and they killed more than Banderlog. Strange you. Loser loser Bandera and Mazepa monuments bet, and real heroes of Ukraine curse.
Putin is a real Russian man, and you Galician Jew
What a funny movie ... Blah, blah, blah, no papers, no facts - that was invented in the red area, the journalist and read. There is a pleasing phrase: "We chose a hero." Or "kill any innocent man," It's about consul - invader. A Bandera, a terrorist would not paint it, though ... and how to deal with Christ-who buy enemies - Germany, and in fact those who now rules the world, took to ruin such territory. Ah, a little on the commies Bander was.  
- Precisely! But they are too stupid to understand it. What's more - now this "nationalism" is supported and sponsored by Yids by them
Stepan Bandera - the hero as he was for the independence of Ukraine from the Bolsheviks. Western Ukraine at various times been under the yoke of Austria-Hungary, and Poland. Stepan Bandera dreamed of independence for Ukraine, he wanted to use the help of the Nazis as UPA did not have enough forces to fight the Bolsheviks. It was a strategic mistake because it Hitler had his own plans for the Ukraine. Sami Russian also collaborated with the Germans, a Russian division of ROA. Bandera's dream was realized in 1991. 
Shame Lugansk, when the SS Galicia in your insolently besperdelnichayut
Sorry, wrong put it.I wanted to say, the whole war Roa were about 500 000 people.
In Ukraine, it is necessary to arrange a civil war and Bandera show their true place as it once did the valiant troops of the NKVD, led by the great Stalin. They say "death to the Muscovites," and I say "death of Bandera." Bandera supporters traitor must be destroyed, period!
shame Ukraine in your country with all sorts of Bandera vide.zapoganili
And how many of them are "Russian"? Russia is an Asian country with a predominantly Asian population and laws. Go to balalaika fofudyu play and do not forget to wear :)
Ukrainians on the coffin and UPArastet unity of the Polish-Russian.
the movie is full of nonsense, who knows and understands the history sees that Stepan was a hero not only for Ukrainians and for many Russian
How is the worst enemy of the Soviet Union and later Russia, a Polish-born Brzezinski has repeatedly said that, and I quote his words: Ukraine with Russia is an empire without Ukraine Russia is the province and no more.And all the events related to this point that the Pole was right.Only about a failed state wipe their feet and proof of this boycott to visit Ukraine in UEFA Cup -2012 all heads of Europe.You dropped through the floor.
pity they do not all have finished bastards Bendery 45y.o. hiding and now aspiring creature povylazili
What the ... guerrilla war. Guerrilla war waged Kovpak. Bandera and his "guerrillas" profanation. So punitive Bandera good as soldiers - complete shit. 
except that specify what particular kind were these prisoners to Lonskaya - these were political prisoners writers, musicians and the like. including women. I would like to learn more about how the Germans were convinced that it was not shot in the NKVD prison, and the Jews? - Do not converge .. Are they stupid? Bandera did not know exactly who pursued ukr.inteligentsiyu? in honor of what they once went only as "terrorizing" the Poles and the Jews even before the prison of Dorval? 
SOON I in ROSІЇ APPEAR SVІY hero.I in you VІRYU ROSІYANI * GRANDCHILDREN KIЇVSKOЇ RUSІ *
Well if you do the transfer of the Holocaust in the tone in this program, you can resent why Jews gipotetichesski avenged the German Ambassador, or why they even fought against it. In the same way leading wonders why Ukrainians fought against the organizers of the Holodomor.
The film was made for the principle that if booze nelzya prevent anyone it should be the lead. Once, when many previously highly classified facts from the life of Bandera and the OUN activities became public and Soviet propaganda about them as the worst enemies of the Ukrainian people (?) poterpela collapse, current followers Suslov took a new state and obplevyvat and Ukrainian patriots.
the device will not allow the U.S. to dissolve the 50 states, but in the device RF dissolve 83 subject's having any pritsendent world to give an opportunity to dissolve.
For a long time, put the Nazi press photos blue-eyed blonde in a helmet. Under the snapshot read: "The Ideal German Soldier". This Aryan ideal was Wehrmacht soldier Werner Goldberg (and dad-Jewish). In western Ukraine, where you do not spit, you get into "mishlinge." Listen, "Aryan", where, then, come from your national musical instrument-drymba? Ukrainians Hitler offered, like savages, giving beads.Now, somehow, so that lad.
You're better then tell me how many Poles are your heroes ounovtsy zamordovali filthy. About genocide in Lviv summer 41st telling you something?
Was a famous prophet Edgar Cayce (1877-1945). Author of over 26,000 predictions on a variety of topics.None of his prediction was not false, they came to pass. So, occupies a special place in his predictions by Russia. Reference, I recommend (very interesting!!): Secretplanet.ru/article/a-192. <wbr>-Html
Whose troll you which of the three countries in which you have taken?You messed up three chambers in which you let the poor fellow with the three countries
My message: "@ Yuriy RESIN you really think that you (not all Ukrainians, and only you - traitors) are waiting in the EU? Your role in the EU - wiping his backside mat at the front door, pushing the Turks. "Reply Yuriy RESIN: "Freak, and who betrayed whom? I am your dwarf oath not given. It would be better with the Turks than with freaks like us in the north. Sdonite "brothers", without you the world will be cleaner. "True, he deleted the message almost immediately ...
....It amazes me how dirtied mozh current Ukrainian National Party ZONE, if for almost twenty years, they have completely forgotten that Outskirts always been an integral part of this Great Country - Russia, and Little called you by the word of a small Russian, Ukrainian - the word living at the edge of ... . What are you so ashamed of their origin - to be proud of! And that's what you happen to call the spirit of Bandera today need - this can be explained only by inferiority and powerlessness ... (or bored?
To allow your idol - Hitler garbage Tyagnibok arranged in Ukraine racial cleansing? 
Ukraїnі glory!
Why, security officers who are involved in political assassinations abroad Ukrainian desidentov not judged as the Nazis in Nyurnbergskom process are not deprived of their pensions, awards? They're working on Bolshevik Russia against Ukraine's independence. Ukrainian authorities should have to judge them and to recognize the Communists banned.
Ukraini glory.Glory Upa and Turkistan legion.Salym from Kazakhstan.
it wrote nehuya scumbags who do normal Russian had nothing bad to say against the Ukrainians. Russian and Ukrainian brothers as not cool, and everything is fine .. just know there are people who hounded us for each other!
Gas and oil will never run out, but ukroblyadi soon be over. Ukraine is the first line on the exodus abroad, and 7 in the world by depopulation. Ahah your pussy ukraine
how much it contains Bandera cocksucker) 0-0
NATSANЄTSTA RASSІKRЄTІLІ BENDERAFASHIZZKAVA PRІHVASNYA VOROBANDІTA ANTІHRІSTA I. PALATCHYA GNUSNAVA!PS Katsap "rassekrettє" іntelekt. And then integer b povіrili in those sho Bandera - shpіon sіthіv and Shukhevych - vnєbrachny syn Dartveydera, yakbi you to TAKE zomboputoyaschiku said ..
UIA 43rd there, and before that they were friends with the Germans over.The conflict began then, and then a large scale is not accepted.Third full force and they did not.
And what is the "GSP"?
Bandera but it infuriated bo their leader Bandera was arrested and Bandera disarm them and take away some of the elderly women killed in children under 16 years and the image will be very interesting to me, even now of SWNTs on a large relative of Ukraine said that troops OUN WAS NOT A clandestine WORK AND GERMANS them too did not complain and thought to himself was 20 years famine people forced to live under the banner of God does not do what you want and more but their gift is not lost prpaganda
this bitch he passed all his filth
Ukrainian-aintsy ... - the most ancient nation, nearly a century! ...)
why the Nazis Ukrainian national hero try to make Bandera, a Ukrainian who had never been to a nationality - a Hungarian?
You're a Pole on his head)