
Bender hero Ukraine!Glory to the Nation!Death to the enemies!
Stepan Bandera, Hero of Ukraine!
In my opinion Bandera HEROY.A that before we all spoke the Russian language as written below.We all went from one group of related language and culture of the people of Indo-European group.And so to have gardens spravochky Kyiv Rus.When Kyiv was the capital city of one of the most powerful.Your Mosca if Peter does not exist.Moscow swamp Peter even did not exist.
Something a lot of opponents Bandera for Rivne neobyektyvno
Good narizochka, Ukrainophobic can podrochyty
This is called ynertsiya thinking, perception. More older generation vdovblyuvaly decades that Bandera - bandit, extremist, etc. And even when the "as new evidence refutes false statements - it takes time and generational change to realize this. 
do not chatter Moskalyk ... I White Church is also West Ukraine?? 
Well Russians vyrishuytes something Ukrainian fascist, the Pole, the Austrian and zaraz already venhr.
UPA bandits are killing women and children!
Lyashe keep a dog quiet you shut us during Zakerzoniyu not settled. Because Google does not translate)
Native of Volyn all such ...Youth underangle more on this issue.Internet helps in this.A Ragulya as always lag behind ...On older (sovitske) generation and nothing to say!
I am ashamed of some residents of my town. although they can know if taught with history only history of the Communist Party?
And rightly made that were placed on the pile!You pay! Attention of young people, all young people said that Stepan Bandera - Hero and old komunyaky said he hero or not or would not answer!ehhh still chuchut wait when all the old Communists perduny povyzdyhuyut brothers will live here then!
Rusko and not Russians and Tatars, such as rat gnawed other rats
for Ukrainian hero! For Little, pshekiv, Russians, nimakiv and various cattle naturally vicious enemy. For under his leadership matured a system that soaked them and protect their own people from the bad. A different stories about bloodsuckers natsyukiv me uchilka hails from east to ros.lit lessons. nachytuvala. In hebistiv was and is a department engaged deodora. Heroes hall of fame!
When Galicia was part of Poland, she did not know the famine, while Ukraine, located just lost millions of people starved to death. And as a "reward" "patriots" Galicia - Poland? "Reward", in particular, that the bandit Bandera organized the murder of the Polish Minister Pyeratskoho. Reward that was met with flowers first Soviet troops, and later met with the colors already Hitler. And the "reward" is not only the Poles. But also his. It wrote Bulba-Borovets.Shame
Bandera HERO UKRAINE ... it definitely ... and not only osvidchyna person can deny it) so make your conclusions =) bam .....
Bandera hero ... only stupid and Enlightened person can deny it!make conclusions who you are =) bam .....
Let now and not a state hero, but National is accurate.
Write please on which video format is converted into, and what kind of program with which parameters. I'm new and I have some video goes bad after ffmpeg. want and afford takuzh quality at yutubi.Thank you very much. my nickname "vhodite" on YouTube
I wonder though 1 with those who wrote all this nisamitnytsyu once opened even history textbook? First becoming aware that it was a man, and then cunt of treason ... whom he betrayed? komunyak, or what?And his people defended him to the end and vidstoyuvuvaty next, for the people, he did not betray her, definitely! ... Katsap-katsapnya! GLORY UKRAINE!
I am a Ukrainian and my children are Ukrainian. And to call this ubitsu the detachment SS hero of our country is real nonsense, I UKRAINIAN capital letters. BUT Bandera's not a hero, it must erase from our memory for ever, and ever.
Why antiukrainskie program presented entirely online, and those that truly illuminate the past of Ukraine-snatches.?!!!!!
For holy truth-Rogue will be missing, not rozkuye clad in your dark shackles people, not kill Evil son rozib not * a living heart for his country.Shevchenko "Cold Ravine."
Relation to Stepan Bandera - a litmus test by which Ukrayitsem see who is who - No!GLORIOUS NATION!
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
UPA fought on three fronts! You know with whom Soviet troops liberated the Lions from the Nazis, and whose flag hung over the day at the Town Hall?? 
russia to Russia does not belong. Pra grandchildren Volodimer V. founded Mosca Mosca Ukrainian even done. Russia naharbala foreign lands Bukershtativ, Chechens, we Kuban Cossack was stolen. At the time of the USSR from the city pumped gas and were sent to Moscow and now at what prices they tell us it prordayut Shame. Ukrahnska it more powerful than the Russian it occurred immediately after the word yanskoyi. UPA fought against the fascists and communists on two fronts and very professionally and inmost against the Nazis, fought for Ukraine.
Stephen Bandrea - hero of Ukraine!
Absolute nonsense. It is by international standards terrorist. 
For holy truth-Rozboynyk will be missing, not rozkuye clad in your dark shackles people, not kill Evil son rozib not * a living heart for his country. (Shevchenko, "Cold Yar")
finally recognized Stalin's atrocities, but Ukrainian could not watch this coven Communists back rukiv! Do not clear!
Glory to Stepan Bandera!
Nye lives Bandera and his state!
no nothing to explain.They know perfectly enemies. that he is a hero.Pours his dirt enemies and executioners of the Ukrainian people.For holy truth-Rogue will be missing, not rozkuye clad in your dark shackles people, not kill Evil son rozib not * a living heart for his country. (Shevchenko "Cold Yar") 
Eternal glory to Hero of Ukraine to Stepan Bandera!
Our hero, our brother, our warrior who gave his life not for money, not for their benefit, but for Ukraine, for our lives, so honor Him and love.Glory to Ukraine!
I support it and respect the UPA as styhiynyy popular movement, but this whole history of Bandera me not very much. Tin on UPA falls with Bandera and his controversial biography.Often have to explain that the UPA and karalni troops in Belarus have nothing in common. And where else not even differs SS Galicia and UPA too dovodytya conduct likbez.
you have doubts, because you believe in the propaganda of the Soviet Union, where the occupants zhydokomunisty, agitation program against all UPA Bandera Petliura, Makhno and other vozvelychuyuchy their zlochyny.yak they "fought".The Soviet government hung on Bandera lie to cover up their crimes against the people.Hitler did not do as much crime as this criminal KPRS.Yih should be banned and judged as fascists.Death to the invaders.Glory to Stepan Bandera and UKRAINE!
Thanks for distribute this video
I was now going to be sick
Wee <U+0301> nnytska tragi <U+0301> action - mass executions of civilians in the winery, conducted by the NKVD for several years before the Second World viyny.bulo found 91 mass graves and exhumed 9,439 bodies. Locals recognized among 468 relatives of the victims. In Ukraine, the first true post about the tragedy appeared only in 1988. According to the results of modern research, it is believed that the total number of repressed during this period in the winery and region amounts to approximately 20 000 people
Bandera was born under the fence in the Austro - Hungary, Bandera maniac kishkodav ...)
I Affairs under the graves of your ancestors yebanyh
Leadership Decision of 30 June 1941 declared the restoration of Ukrainian State in Lviv. The event was an attempt to "put before the fact" leadership of the Third Reich and force to recognize Ukrainian struggle. However, Hitler ordered his police to immediately liquidate this "conspiracy Ukrainian independence supporters." The Germans arrested Bandera a few days after the act of proclamation revival of the Ukrainian State - July 5, 1941. German prisoner was Stepan Bandera to December 1944 
ahahahahahahaha pasiba by vidyuhu, parzhal!Well, well you tell is not howling. Incidentally Bandera, even the devil with a tail.
love your neighbor as yourself
sosaty Dad is obviously your class, and what do you Slavs thou Finno-fin
katsapik and what you write, you're tupyy.i his tongue even know (you write with errors). childhood had to walk to school instead of vodka Bear zhrat
By all appearances, it was you fags Terry, and even passive. 
Interestingly, someone that looked hrYen the end ....By not even trying to create the appearance of objectivity. Spit drool and gag on anger ...
Video is designed for stupid katsapnyu, local hohlobydlo and katsapskiy kids.Katsazhopi told how they should live Ukrainian. And you went nah.y laptyenosy smelly!
I watch and listen Mlechyna and think to myself, if he heard about this part of the human soul, as conscience, conscience. No, believe me, he does not know them. What is false abomination because he knowledgeable person, and downright lies, lies, lies. Katsapskyy Goebbels!
Katsapska nonsense! Is colonizers can write the true story? Apparently in the world no nation disgusting as clerks. In conscience million Russians murdered Ukrainian, so they are creating false movies. Colonialists, they are in Africa - the colonizers.
Some fool. Movie people lower_device development. Normal propohanda and no more. 
standard propaganda. Damage Russians who poured this wall every day in your ear
So lie - you have talent or be Moskal chauvinist. And this filmyk just ridiculous ...
Continue in the same spirit, well done! trolls-whore you enjoy.
hahaha :)) second world began Banderas you to know, sothat notmust us to go, or will be the third!
I would have banned the channel. "very much aware" historian herovi.
Moskal listen-yourself nepovazhaty!
FU fu fu, is an abomination. Moscow pidery Zadovbalo. Fantasia on a higher level.
It says so, but our research in the archives of the KGB-NKVD Moscow does not allow. From this simple conclusion mlyechinyh - FSB descendant KGB-NKVD and mlyechiny is their liar. Like those vischaly in Soviet times on one wave in all areas. continues 
Fuuuu! which pizdlyvyy and nasty voice in this Moskal matched on video!which he had just intonation pussy!I want to say one thing! zazhralis you russkie zazhralis! always think that you are right in everything! What If not right then it will still pussy to they look right!besides that robbed our culture for centuries, slaughtered us millions and even nedovolni what we did against them Uprising! God judge you!Glory to Ukraine!!!!!
divchenko, you dream about a horizontal ploschinu? I'm close. 
Vasilkov hear! The more you and you would like to write lies and libel by UPA OUN Bandera those bыlshymy heroes they will RESPECT TOBЫ continues to advance further 
Another lie Mlechyna - on Metropolitan.Sheptytsky: Under the influence of Bishop Church in many churches and monasteries Galicians saved hundreds of Jews.In personal care Sheptytsky survived 15 rabbis (David Kagan, who saved the Metropolitan in the 1970s was the chief rabbi of Tel Aviv).In November 1942 Sheptytsky spoke with the letter "Thou shalt not kill", which appealed to the Ukrainian not support Nazi provocation »umoloda.kiev. ** Ua/number/771/1 <wbr> -63/28049 /
Another lie from Mlechyna - denial that Ukrainian hid Jews. "Sambir newspaper "in Lviv by March 1, 1944 said:" The death penalty for harboring the same number (s) ing and promoting them executed - Kryzhkovska Mary Demetrius Sofia Suhoruch Stephen, Korchmar Mary Maslyar Anna Maria Nazar, Kulyak Nikolai, Mikhail Kovalchuk , Existing Nastya, Ukrainian "" These newspapers - a huge reservoir for researchers, who will see that the Nazi genocide opposed the local population ", - said Felix Levitas.
Pogroms were - no one denies. Another thing or involved in them OUN and UPA ...Jew in the struggle for NEZAVYSYMUYU UKRAYNUh. * Ua/story/348952 /
5) pogroms in Lviv by nationalists - a lie. Otherwise, the Jews would not fight on their formed 100tys army and the population supported it, both then and now. Even the units were in the Donbas and Sumy. Therefore conclude that Banderas against Ukraine - is puk.7) Revolt in the Gulag in Norilsk, and which shook the Stalinist system basically made prisoners Banderas. Others were weak-willed weight.
1) nationalism derives from NE.Ukraine - Dontsov (Melitopol) Mikhnovsky (Kharkiv), Lipa (Odessa), Stsiborsky (Odessa), and only found embodiment in Zahodi2) the adequacy of the attacks - and that there were options for existing conditions? Virginity is consul-cog Soviet in the system, which then killed more than 10 thousand Ukrainian famine in a day? Will the Minister who issued decrees assimilation? War on viynu.3) lie that nationalists saw Ukraine, where only ukrayintsi4) OUN and Nazi enmity. 750 their shot at B.Yaru
I look and see how nationalist Freedom Party exempt from Ukrainophobes Moscow apostates and Ukraine. rises as conscious Ukrainian people, who respect their history and language. And no matter how bisnuvalys authors such propaganda cartoons, heroes do not VMYRAYuT.Bandera alive!The enemy - death!
And i really like that person says something differently, it is not so kind??Hundreds of years people have been razomYui entails no problems.Vedetesya ak dovbooby on different "utky" which you pidkydayut policy! More syadde i podyvitsya DOM-2 or some inshu fuck! Well shit, honestly, how debily! Just EVALUATE those around you as being a normal person, what difference dick as she says?? Is not it a little pidriv near you? And a true national hero mu not need a guard (militia) near the monument in memory *.
Glory to Ukraine!soon we should pursue maskalotu the neck of government
Susanin let come, send you to the family in a horizontal position!then you do not georgia!here a number not slip!
not worse or what, but pidery Tuda zaphalys, you always want pokomanduvaty
Ukrainian nation rebelled! I believe that freedom will change everything in favor of Ukrainian! GLORY UKRAINE!
In banderlohIv one lane at the head - and that their ass separates into two halves. Idiotic zombies - wearable with its Bandera like a fool with nothing. 
fucking Jews and Russians, from `yibitsya from Ukraine. Bandera - our hero!and you, Scott, will soon get what sho earned
It is more in your life communists hate it!
Do Moskalyk think that this nonsense someone believe :)
Pray go on their Lenin!anyone out there have
these heroes never Ukraine nehodyly conquer foreign lands, they protect their own house people after vozyednannya Ukrainian lands and the arrival of the western lands Red Army tyschi Ukrainian and thousands were deported to Siberia and killed in captivity and now they (sovitchykam) neymetsya why so venerated their Heroes of the Germans as liberators, and so on charvonyh 
In the film, said that he died an innocent man who shot and killed as they say "mycolic Lyemik" and before the famine, which killed millions of people who did not want to go to the farms, they were vynovati, this goal justifies the victim. Just senility! 
Whatever he said hero every nation wants to be free. And you already Moskalyk people can not be fooled. In western Ukraine, where Bandera fought for an independent Ukraine everywhere they are respected and educated people in eastern communist propaganda and therefore do not know the truth. All this is done sooner or later people will open their eyes and vonyvznayut truth.
Hitler wanted to seize the whole of Europe, and Bandera fought for their land, in their own land, ve on someone else's land does not climb as pidery moskalski.
Alex you Cf Stalin and Hitler, because it is they attacked other nations and countries, and Stepan Bandera just zahyshav their land and these arguments can be many. 
We have a different story to you here you live in Ukraine, and not even want to speak the language of the land, although its language also do not forget. And on account of Stalin, he was an even bigger cat than Hitler because they worked together and even Stalin thought that Hitler would attack him first. Honor the true history, not the one that tells simanyenka. 
You live in here and pokrashuy life in Russia, and not go to a foreign State. 
1. You're my point - Put yourself in the ass.Эta topic not Close. Not liked - Mota Hence. 2. Here I live and I know the situation is not worse òåáÿ and òû only portysh air. 3.I also speak Ukrainian (though it is not my native language) and tell you this: As for me, nothing is more offensive than be the Galician dog like you. At the pathological level can not stand UIS Bandera contempt. This is primirnyk lies. chauvinism, inhumanity, threats and cerebral inferiority. Ugh, amoba!
"In the ass" you dream kiss Russians, because he is their pidstilkoyu.You're Neanderthal as those wild Asians.What's that you just showed that you PMS))))) I'm Ukrainian and I live in Ukraine, "aer portyat" here only those dogs Kremlin like you.You bitch, you understand?Because you do not have no national identity or patriotism, no dignity, no honor.Such as you call "hahlami" and "malarosami", do not you feel ashamed?This topic is resolved since time immemorial, moskofile-Ukrainophobe.By <wbr>-things I Sumy region, if you know where it is.
So it's you on everything, cheat, hahahahaha!Brush your teeth for a Muscovite does not want you to quit canine))) In general, why are you still here?Found in his Russia if Ukraine does not like it!Krakadil Hyena fucking haha ​​...
Already? And you natsyku, greed. It sucked that up with prysmoktom! Do beekeeper scared? In the next time, I pray chmokchy slower. Go ahead, hutsulyatske scarecrow, bays me that you are "worthy patriot" and "real yevropeets" ...
"It sucked that up with prysmoktom! "-Your personal life I do not tsikavytyu.I said everything I wanted.PS Do not strain your ass, well, you know the language, what can you do to lick ass Muscovites it is just not necessary.
"Worked together"-similar in meaning to "one thought of the case, the parties' only then something fell out.They cooperated and zamylyuvaly one-one eyes.Even the Soviet war against Poland, it does not perform the contract between him and the Reich, and Stalin is simple practicality.He did it just to move abroad.And from Hitler's attack did not expect, because carefully read "Mein Kampf" where Hitler wrote that Germany is the main enemy of France, and therefore the United Kingdom, as its ally, and while it does not destroy the "enemies" of the West, East 
not go.So Stalin destroyed vast "Stalin Line", which really could not be overcome, and created four paratroop corps, which is more than was airborne when the world together!I had planned to create a 4, and the war began.
HERO! No, he came to them, and they to us, without invitation.Dogs dog's death
And why none of Russia does not want to think about - how much trouble brought Bolshevism to Ukrainian lands. What you see only in one direction, and then distorted upside down. The Russians will never change ....
Who will read your nonsense, time, sorry ...
Thank Stepan Bandera Andreevychu!
does not understand. as P. Skoropadskyy and I. Mazepa. obyednuvaly Ukraine ..
Maskalyu what you bisyshsya yobny itself spirtu pint can pass.The Internet resound all the characters, but something measurable to you katsapiv rarely hear.Glory to Ukraine!
Leadership Decision of 30 June 1941 declared the restoration of Ukrainian State in Lviv. The event was an attempt to "put before the fact" leadership of the Third Reich and force to recognize Ukrainian struggle. However, Hitler ordered his police to immediately liquidate this "conspiracy Ukrainian independence supporters." The Germans arrested Bandera a few days after the act of proclamation revival of the Ukrainian State - July 5, 1941. German prisoner was Stepan Bandera to December 1944
YOU Moskal katsabivky all bandits: the Gruzina, Lithuanians, Belarusians and so can endlessly pererahovuvaty.aAle problem is that we want to live in their aging, but not as you know how to conquest, land ac as we want, but not so as you dream ------ seize the whole world.---- Your story is wrong zebli seized you by the neck in human blood, and .33 years history not overwrite.You hate the whole world you ===== parasites globe.PERETANTE shove YOUR smelly.Nose to another country Barbarian
I wonder how cattle evaluates immediately Sudoplatov
great King Daniel chose Red Rus path to the West, in Europe, in the civilized world. He refused Eastern barbarism, away from the Mongol-Tatar ideology East and allow our land to develop in western culture. We are left only to confirm that a great choice.
I can not understand who we are bandits ----- UKRAINIAN? Who never fought on foreign soil, not to infringe or on whose independence is simply defending his home and time has shown that they have that right.Are all the other Russians, Poles, Jews ... who appeared sovyetskoyi members of a criminal government that hated, enslaved, destroy the Ukrainian nation in its own land. 
And you call us as hocheshale how we live on their land - then none of your business
Listen You clever, want to know the truth - come to Ukraine!Banderivschyna - a truly popular movement, especially in Volyn!Listen sho speak Polish!
because you Moskalyk invaders and not zaspokoyetes in western Ukraine you are deep in the ass
Well persecutors themselves Russians ..... scary as persecuted ... watch this Burda and crying with laughter that came up with a Moskalyk. Somehow natsionalit-Muscovite is a hero and nationalist Ukrainian is the culprit immediately. Listen Russians sosit pepu and thumps on, it poluchayetsya you well!
Then kak ponymat is: "Act provozhlashenyya Ukrainskaia Derzhavы." Third paragraph: "Restored Ukrainian state will closely cooperate with the National Socialist Velykonimechchynoyu that led Adolf Hitler a new order in Europe and the world ..." ??
On very interesting "wanted to make one svobodnoy Ukraine on" Prymerno as well êàê Hitler BRITAIN. Bandera: "People! Know! Moscow, Poland, Hungarians, Zheedvej - are your enemies. Destroying them! Liakhov, Jews, Communists destroy without mercy. " The principle is simple, "All pydorasы one I'm good!" 
This principle was all natsionalistivscho so strange?
Maybe China soup could afford it, but Ukraine does. Actually, since the national movement has not developed and was crushed, he had only enemies. Even among ethnic Ukrainian, he was not so popular, as it is told today.
"Act provozhlashenyya Ukrainskaia Derzhavы." (Podpysannыy Banderoy) Third paragraph: "Restored Ukrainian state will closely cooperate with the National Socialist Velykonimechchynoyu that led Adolf Hitler a new order in Europe and the world ..." 
SDOHNY degenerate POLYTSAYA! Your comments psы bastards banderoyudы 25 rokyv HN and what good would zrobыlы and tylky all people vydobralы ... 
Stepan Bandera was a Nazi foreman!
You would all first revered history. I'm not even talking about the Ukrainian books. You can read something neutral (eg U.S.) ...
Seriously? What do you generally unknown history? By the end of the Second World War, America and Russia were on the same side! The whole feud has already started to show up at the end of the war. Americans are more stringent criticism of Nazism than the Russians! During World War II, Hollywood movies are filmed proslyavlyaly Russian troops ... But less so. Even reading the Russian (!) version vikapediyi can learn much more about Bandera than you here all pretend that you know. 
cool young man replied
Well, Stalin was such bullshit life doing. During his reign Siberia "flourished"
Dear Ladies, forgive my nechemnist, so I was not here yet not gone.For avstriyachky of Times Haribaldi he thug just like you Bandera, and for italiyky - hero.You either rosiyanka or prorosiyanka.Ukrainskoho to have very little.I still love i ukraintsiv i Russians, but lyubpyu validity. So what is missing Banderi for you to be considered a hero? For he, too, loved the Russians? As Haribaldi avstriytsiv, or even more?First to Answer and sweat and can "take one's leave." 
Soviet occupation Estimates historians number of deportees from Western Ukraine reaches 700 million people. During 1939-1941, the Western Ukraine were arrested about 60 thousand, 50 thousand of whom were shot. During the first two weeks of the German-Soviet war, June 22, 1941 in prisons in Western Ukraine Bolsheviks shot over 21 thousand prisoners.
Typical Russian propaganda, they were good, nothing we do, but we are so bad and cruel see all enemies. This video is just ridiculous, there is no truth and can show to people who do not know the history of Western Ukraine.
\ Wikipedia \ Kozak Mamai (Mamai Cossack, Cossack hobo) - idealized image of Cossack and Ukrainian in Ukraine in general. Defender of the Ukrainian people, nomads, wanderer, warrior, sage and sorcerer storyteller rolled into one. His paintings can be found in almost every house along with icons. The name (name) is closely related to the ancient term "mamayuvaty" (travel, kozakuvaty, keep Cossack way of life), "go to Mama" (random walk, aimlessly).
Someone who enjoys power over you Katsap, it's Putin. And who does not like us, the inhabitants of Western Ukraine, better see who the hero. Whether you may executioners of the Ukrainian people is more visible?
Have yet to make a film about the Cold Ravine. As in central Ukraine Ukrainian fought with "savyetskimi vayskami." Banderists largely taught in them.
And the voices are in katsapiv? As from the grave. Uzhassss!
The most stupid nation in the world - is the clerks.I must be an idiot to believe kremlyadskiy propaganda - but it is a purely medical diagnosis ..
You simply inadequate to see antyruskost where it is not.Do you personally as well as your kotsapske shoblo have no right to tell Ukrainian, whose historical postetay we respect and what is not.It's like if I pointed you who love more - Chapaev or Denikina.koho are considered a traitor, and one hero.If you are so stupid that do not understand these simple and basic things - please contact your doctor.I'm not the kind of person that will put you a diagnosis.There are two people and each of them their heroes
And Bandera was pydarasom and made him a hero hemorroem. 
This Jewish clique.These "fucked" and so the truth is not told.Turn
It is not surprising that the Russians have such a wall in yutub that one can expect from a good Moskal, I think everyone knows.
then we are ready for everything and if you are willing to collect belongings and travel to mosskvy?
usual propaganda from the Evil Empire - Russia.
to omongoleny Finno-Finns is nedohodyt! for them all invader who beat their snout to defend their land - "mAskvы enemy and traitor" :))) nыby ъm someone something swore. :) horde.
Thank you for the movie!)))))Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the nation! Death to the enemies! Bandera Hero of Ukraine!
no film and clot-katsapsko zhydivskoi lie! Thank Bandera! Glory to the nation! 
Well, you persecuting yourself lyashe ....Lviv is Ukrainan ...And you just suntes zhulnezhi shy!
I do not nazi but the best was the USSR Knife Nimechchina how many people died because of the USSR and their power who create Revolution Famine And in his shot at Stalingrad Who would not want ITI in battle all say Bandera kid worked for the Germans but that Ukraine was better. Generally Go into ass who is against Ukrainian) Glory to Ukraine!Thank Uknrayini!Glory to Ukraine
I agree with you so does our Bandera our susshdam ix really poorly educated quip to another garden do not look at someone else's plate do not go to a stranger monastery with by her charter surely in today's all so good I'm not going to if something which Moscow open school class dedicated to General Anton Ivanovich Denikin and Admiral Alexander Vasilyevich Kolchak he had Ukrainan roots and ukrainka brother's wife and the wife had Russians well, no one is allowed you to us teach you our 
Then you have people called dogs because you licked the Germans shoes, shouting "Heil!" hoarse basamyI "is still alive ..." roared loudly.Where do you go - there is wasteland and ruins and corpses not fit into pits.Spat with blood "mummy Ukraine" On the muzzle you and your masters.
And where these ahahahahahahahaha your dollars??You would think that even though one of those dollars will go to you.These dollars go directly into the pockets Abramovich, Putin and other oligarchs who you yibut as last uyobkiv that you inprinciple is.You can only zhraty vodka and sosaty cock and scream about nonexistent empire, which if not today then tomorrow vyyibut Chinese or Americans, but after a fuck Caucasians.Zhry vodka and pray for their king Putin and Ukraine on their yibalo not open.
Your oligarchs yibut primarily you and steal your bowels.Where are you stealing our bowels, where you destroy our people?))) you have drunk from vodka already clanks started?I can only imagine that you are in real life.Moskalske dumb cattle, degenerate, which thumps every day does not work anywhere, and just can not write stupid comments.And you do not talk about the occupation of Ukraine.Prepare your ass better come back soon or Chinese American member, that's when you realize you sho real slut!
FREEDOM OR DEATH - with this slogan in central Ukraine fought against Bolshevik bydloty at 1920h, 1945h and continued on ZAHIDNIY.Vsim Russians and Ukrainian - Respect! A Katsap and Khokhloma - death!
never remembered ... "Remember, Russians, <wbr>-we do not stop calling Bandera-Hero!
once and Russia may be delivered from the shackles of their kings and then learn the historical truth and understand Ukrainian. until you have washed the brain, there is no talk about sho. and our heroes: Bandera, Shukhevych Konovalets petliura, Khmelnitsky, blockhead, etc. will never be forgotten!GLORY UKRAINE!
We are descendants of Ukrainian prince of Kiev, Zaporozhye Cossacks Sich Riflemen.Our heroes - Mazeppa, Petliura and Bandera those who so hate the Russians.They're not going to have and have not learned how you live, why you Muscovite - Asians always phala us their nose? We have always and without enough "dobrozhelateley" so better bow his characters Petrushka and Lenin!
Rossiyskaya propahandystskaya rhetoric - Someone against the Great Face, Toth traitor and a bandit. Russian Empire always tried to run pohlybshe imperial claws territory neighbors and these attempts continue today - military presence (Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kyhrhyziya), economic pressure and resistance, protection of the invented "russkayazыchnыh" - mass distribution of passports, 
continued: occupation of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, despite the reluctance of Georgia and ending myrtvorchoho mandate, and Russia there alone. Russia continues to state international terrorism - killing Litvinenko in England, kidnapping opposition Leonid Razvozzhayeva in Ukraine. In the movie materially misstated facts in reaching agreement propaganda purposes: it Bandera below average, the above medium height, he "ohranychennыy fanatic" then vsestorono developed person - literature, music,
continued: skillful and strong-willed organizer, a man of great strength of will, then he completely submits to the Germans, it does not come to any compromise in matters of independence and freedom in Ukraine. One word "zakazuha" of Putin's "NEfalsyfikatoriv" "nashej with total history".
"Nelzya live with neighbors Receive from him energy-resources on deshёvke" - Russian "by deshёvke" has led to the fact that Ukraine comes cheaper gas re-exported from Germany. For the population of Ukraine is a gas extraction (19-21 bcm), which at a cost of 30-50 dol.za 1000 cubic sold for 100-120 dollars. In Russia, Gazprom has a monopoly of the "state" control, and Ukraine beschynstvuyut "private intermediary." See statistics for the USSR - to 1970 in Ukraine production was more than 70 mlrd.kub.hazu
Silly you if so count.Inour hymn of Ukraine is the word --- From Syan to the Don will not let anyone dominate.Where pianist xiang and where dong.Warriors UPA not attacked they defended themselves from those same Poles who wanted to rule over us ----- is not this a crime?When break into your house and set your orders, and Poland did so very long with Ukraine.Vorny gentlemen nashiyzhe on earth - and we cattle.WE Beadle WE NATION!!!!
I agree. No i can not takoi natsionalnoi idei by Council yakoi can destroy people.
burn in hell Stashinsky .....Thank Bandera! Glory to Ukraine!!
Better stairs to the church and their sins zamoly, satanynskoe otrode.
Ulcers on the tongue pops ...Pererodok! I say with Muhosranska! And each their sins ...As you are not less.And not in the church ... and the temple! Ignoramus!
Diagnosis irreversible ...Brains zero ..Instead of holovy.makitra meal.
you just buff diagnose young man, or mliesh the thought I gave this rebuff uncle dolboebu. I this Fine chappy. Well mliy and further alye not long. Nothing in life just do not buvaye.yak and our discussion with you.Now you can show off your korefanam. that went way Kozak-sorcerer and now syzhu and think. or obisratysya or immediately same drown .....
Hrakternyk!? HA! I've kind of Cossacks ...You zayesh though, who is ...Sorcerer ...Nachytavsya vykipediyi, proffessor!! Better do it all at once, and Obvonyaysya vtopys!!Or do harakiri ....
Telepen.try years, you probably will be enough for you ...
Honor Proceedings Dyachenko VP anthropological composition of the Ukrainian people and Alekseevoy about too The most mozhet yzvylyn dobavytsya and tupыh komentov write shalt not
Azopa ...Not shkabarchy, are you haloxylon? Salo you do not like ...Taste puppies??
You confess to me, How do you spell those, I am without you all the days in captivity sadness.Maybe somewhere in the woods you spell potion-looking, sun and Ruth found me zcharuvala.Red Ruth Do not look for evenings - you i the only one Only you, yeah. Because your beauty - that is Chistaya water, that is, those crystal blue waters from the mountains.Ptychyy thy-language read-only eye diplomats, vыpolzen Lesnoy and slap mayoneznыy.
We LANGUAGE! SOLOVYINA! And you kozloborodyy goat, unwashed mug. Ignorant and Tupac.Where are you with your brains understand Ukrainian. Baby grow in sopelkah!!
Nozzle blot ...Blohastyy buffoon. Goat bleating already nadoyilo ..A Language in nas.spivucha ..Ugly're a man if you can you call it ...What bald phayetes us teach .. schizoid. UKRAINE been and will ...Not dizhdetes Azopa!
You yourself understand that written?? Udmurd. ! 
Chud swamp ..Polizay on cedar cones to collect. 
A drain was and never will be! Pine stump.
Stepan Bandera Ukraine became famous for centuries, the heroes heroic UPA won defenseless village. Then he died heroically inhabitants of these villages. Such atrocities Europe had not seen in ages.
So do not be afrystamy, your poll is restricted
Vuduman peysypryvit goals of Bandera
I love these videos. Russians immediately begin drystaty.
Bandera was, is and will be an example of a firm posture by creating a free state and no dirt it is not terrible. And we work rather leave! 
Bandera - our hero!No Russians, no you is not correct and the grave, nor pigs are not affiliated to it. 
Bandera was a hero. but the fact that he destroyed the Poles it was a response to your murder and enslavement Ukrainian
More specifically, the reaction of a healthy nation (Bandera did not personally kill Poles) to horror "pacification"!
nothing but dirt on you Russia pig go and kiss the devil you Muscovite pigs. Bandera Ukrainian and hero, Glory Death of Ukraine.
We westerners are not Slavs, and Aryan, and Arabic uhrofinskoy race, it proved our genetics. About 20% of mtDNA western Ukrainian belonging to Asian haplogroup M, A, V, where the female line are 20% Mongoloid DNA where maternal DNA Ukrainian consists of 34 haplogroups, with the most common in Ukrainian haplogroup H (xH1, H2) in 20%. Our scientist Balanovskoe says: It seems that we in the Western Ukraine, as the cross came together several different gene pools ancient tribes
Why not accept that came from Western Ukraine almost all people :))
Parents Stepan Bandera was a Ukrainian nationalist Stepan Bandera was! His words zaphay in sovyu maskalsku fat ass! You do have silent heroes in you not, was not and will not, CLAVA UKRAINE
you kid moskalskyy then all western Ukrainian Hungarians were
Galicia is Ukraine, and gathering too far beyond them, and therefore entitled "Code" that is "different bullshit" :)
Unfortunately we all Ukrainian, actually - were Finno-Finns, with a touch of Arabian blood. This fact filmed our Ukrainian Ukrainian TV movie DNA portrait of the nation. He told a conference in 2012 genetic study in the UK, all citizens of Ukraine who consider themselves Ukrainian and call themselves Slavs. Unfortunately no Ukrainian Slav among us has not been revealed. It was sensational, but we are not Slavs, we Finns and Finno Aryans and Arabs. See on my channel 
Bandera, the Ukrainian, who fought for Ukraine. Taras Bulba is the story of a character idiot. How are you going to glorify Stalin. Russia pigs.
If I call Banderists I flaunt it (pa Rusko harditstsa) 
and where the slain? In Ukraine or Poland?
killed them in Ukraine, lived in a small village near the city Translator.
write Polish. And for whom he was a translator? For Ukrainian peasants in the Ukraine? 
and what he is doing in Ukraine? Who called it there? Ukrainian?
what uncle or grandmother used to say? Came Bandera and all killed? Do the inhabitants of the land - farmers did lynching? Ask if you can. 
"People always have the right to protest oppression"
February 9, 1943 in the village Parosle Hundreds HRYHOORIJA PEREHYJNAKA UPA killed 173 Poles - Infants nailed to the table with a knife, raped women, had breast gather, collect ears, noses, lips, eyes powyjmowane, collect head .... Among the remnants of food and baby bottles found 12-month bayonet nailed to the table, and put the child mouth-eaten piece of pickles.Is this the fight for freedom from whom you proud?
I do not care what you say? No, and why should I worry about Russia lover thinks Russia and Ukraine Ukrainian treated like crap for years, and you moan about Bandera and people who wanted to liberate Ukraine pathetic idiot you are.
Thank Bandera!With exploration you took us to the Russians?by the way they are Finno-Ugric origin, do you mean that all men are brothers?
Stepan Bandera - Hero of Ukraine!You shame Ukrainian, katsapska litter.
Bandera man in the fullest sense of the word, and cowardly vyplodky nkvdystiv never a man does not grow .. unfortunately
What Ukraine? Former Polish imagined himself Ukrainian and climb with his mother to the Nazis in Ukraine.Tell the thanks that we will tolerate in their own land!
Typical garbage coming from Russia loving cow. Bandera Hero of Ukraine, and will always be our hero. If you hate the Ukraine, then go to Russia earth pig
@ Slava199416Vyznayu, zavtykav with phone see it, but we are nervous matched by fellow katsapiv LUNCH?=))
OUN UPA - the only force that became organized, not afraid of the totalitarian regime of the USSR played a decent resistance zavoyvnykam all stripes and YOU CITIZENS UKRAINE not surprised why so many scream and cry ever weaker structure provides decent passing it is not forgotten. Our enemies Judeo komunyak bum hurts to this day.Imy must not forget our heroes. GLORY OUN UPA! .
July 11, 1943 UPA attacked more than 100 Polish villages and claimed the lives of more than 15,000 Poles - for example, a family of Polish cosmonaut Miroslav Hermaszewski Lipniki, and a family of Polish composer Krzesimir Debski in Kisielin.What threat to UPA Polish children were killed in the church July 11, 1943 in Volhynia? What threat infants with Guta Pieniacka smashed against the wall of the church soldiers SS "Galicia?
Bandera fought for the freedom of Ukraine against the Soviet occupation. But he was just a puppet in the hands of the German Nazis who nenavideli Slavs and believed they were not full in including Ukrainian and that the plan Ost shouldwere life destroyed.
When cap and Rudnev only appeared in Western lands, it chose not to conflict with the nationalists because of the weakness of their position in the region.By the way, Banderas quite welcomed the raids Kovpaka kovpakivtsyam and helped a lot. But then pressed the Kremlin Kovpaka and grandfather Sydir cap as a devout communist and military obeyed orders, Framed Bandera and hit them in the back. 
Bandera and Shukhevych Hero of Ukraine
Katsap you? You saw what you wrote? yea sranyy patriot when incorrectly writing the word hero, and soup wrong name of the country that it is difficult for the country to rewrite?To the city come in to school to you if you have summer vacation? no shame Ukraine erase your account here.
yah Nohah such heroes
Bandera man of high spiritual values!and cattle which denies it ... and will remain a slave to someone else's words and thoughts!Bandera hero ..... thank Mother Ukraine for the fact that you sent us such a man!
you with it on you was acquainted with? Can you write the history of Ukraine? and you saw how many stories we have to grip the whole of Europe, despite the fact that one story in one book and the second in the second, what is the probability that you chose the right?
I admit zavtykav with phone see it, and sho we are evil by brothers katsapiv LUNCH?=))
We are so angry, you're someone navyazuyesh his idea I repeat you the same character was personally acquainted to put him on the throne, unless you know the whole truth about him it happened to, but not reflections of former katsapiv or historians who saw in her eyes only his fotohrfii and read katsapski books and telling us the same thing, a great hero then go Azarov Ukrainian language teach.
and zavtykav and not matched and that, and dining and abusive.
I admit zavtykav with phone see it, but we are nervous matched by fellow katsapiv LUNCH?=))
bandernya and Nazi punisher shukhevych - go Nohah
I respect the Russians.I hate clerks.Glory to Ukraine and Bandera.Read history and you'll understand.
Do not listen moskalsku cheap propaganda.Bandera Hero of Ukraine.
And it says sranyy troll
This is because nkvdysty shot hundreds of thousands of ethnic Ukrainian. So they welcomed Hitler as a liberator. But soon saw his true face and began to fight against fashytskyh komunyak against Nazi Germans. Your propaganda, like this movie does not give you a look into the eyes of truth. Think of your head
In Lipnikah 26. March 1943 upa killing 179 Poles, 4 hidden Jews. The life runs 500 persons in this two-year-old Miroslav Hermashevski, astronaut later submitted to the hands materito is true 
OJ lie YOU, well, like a dog! I looked to where YUTUBU personally told veteran of the events of the Soviet party member battle of Brody about their meeting in battle of division of Galicia. As a witness of the war said that they are not worse than the Division and that a stronger opposition did well than the Germans, more numerous sovyetskoy army.
"First Ukrainian Division"?Actually Pantserhrenaderska 14th SS Division "Galicia" (14.Panzer-diwision SS "Galizian").
ShumRom1 Grosh price so potsreёtam ... dyvyzyya handonov. Go to the wind probzdysya already fascist Russophobic natsiANAListychna pig!
So you're a fascist, because you live in Ukraine and love it! And they fought for it for the current anthem and flag. Think about it.
Firstly, I'm not offended. Do not insult you and me, if you are educated person. Boys collaborated with the Germans thought Hitler will be independent Ukraine. Because his own against Communist Russia was almost impossible to win this war. 
Do not tie the Nazis with patriots. It's in the Nazi government, where millions of Ukrainian and no ukr.shkoly, no ukr.kanalu. On your out when I was born Ukrainian then vynovatyy this? I want all the nations of the world have their own language, culture and their country. Turn on the TV and look at each channel as "dirty". This is not in any country in the world, I have been many times abroad. But how do you be ashamed if you so matyukayeshsya! I'm really sorry for you. 
Grosh price so potsreёtam ... dyvyzyya handonov. Go to the wind probzdysya already fascist Russophobic natsiANAListychna pig!
Guys were fighting for an independent Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
You do not love Ukraine? First examine the language of the earth where you live, and then talk about something else. UPA fought for independence under synozhovtymy flag and anthem "Ukraine has not perished" which are now state attributes Ukraine, they defended their country, how can you call them thugs.Respect the land dety live, he shall not be well with thee, and if you can not then go off to Russia where you understand. 
Think of your head. How can a normal person kill his mother, the child, his people? Answer ... NKVD specially trained in teaching the formation of local "Galician" dialect and threw them into the village where they killed civilians to undermine confidence in the army UPA. Eventually you come to us in western Ukraine and see for yourself how we have monuments in honor of the UPA. Jews in Ukraine, where there were divisions UPA they are respected, and where they do not know there is not love, is not it a paradox. 
You see .. You say people are good, that these people were in Bandera in the rebel army, they were not brought here from space when they came to the land invaders. And they had to do. Do you have entered wrong? So we are good people, but when they come to your house and driving force in the collective taken last crumb of bread then patience breaks. Russians are independent. So we are not Ukrainian worse than others. We want to live in peace in their God-given land with all peoples of the world. 
They fought for Ukraine's independence against all her enemies, including the Soviet army, if you do not know they even have one tank, but it's against the vast Soviet machine just nothing. At the expense of about ten to one, then if you count, the rebels were billions. You better tell me how Stalin exterminated Ukrainian repression and famine (about 10 million), and Shukhevych simply supported morale because both said that's all.Shukhevych was and remains a hero. Glory to Ukraine
So you are the one who defended their land while - palach? As you now independent Ukraine from its flag and trident under which fought rebels comes as bandit? And your leader Stalin and Hitler banned all over the world. Think about it. Evidently you Simanyenka completely brainwashed zapudryv. Union won the war, and where is he? Deep from the anus. You do not love Ukraine. God judge you, but remember ukr.prysliv 'I "Do not spit into the well because you will have more water to drink." 
In the world can be three moms zapamyatay it. Similarly, Ukraine, Russia and Blorusiya have 3 Slavic, but different nations. With Russia Belarus already completely forgotten their language, Ukrainian half. Zapamyatay never be happy at the expense of someone else's grief. So simple, nothing happens. Russia unhappy nation and you will feel it soon. Putin himself will soon bring down this evil empire.
What kind of a nation VERS you when you speak a different language. So Moskovia one nation, and we have another. So Kyiv was the capital movement, but not Muscovy. Honor the true story, not the supply of Russian chauvinists. And so we really were fraternal nations let russia introduce a Ukrainian schools, television, etc. In millions of Ukrainian lives and they do not have the capacity to develop and maintain their culture. Is it to do so? 
There was a year ago and saw everything with my own eyes. 100 km from Moscow and derovnya. Well perhaps even St. Petersburg. 
Geography prohulyval
I would like to ask you if you know that there are many Ukrainian Kuban ... Question how many Ukrainian schools, libraries, Ukrainian channels. A - 0. True? In Canada and elsewhere Ukrainian living for over 200 years and is now known and revered their language, and in Russia, where millions of Ukrainian lives, does not create any conditions for the need to preserve their roots. There is a total Russification, but it is not good even for the Russians.
And what a vocabulary! As the interior! So your dad and mom so taught? Slabonko. 2 for expression?? thoughts?? And there is a thought. And there is education.Rudeness, ignorance and darkness. Shame human.
Myths and fairy tales. Briefly course of history - version Bolshevik Party. Nonsense gray horse.
What to do. Shame on you that you are from Ukraine. Well, I do not know, do something with them. But in general - in all thy nakedness do not care. 
They fought for their land and your relatives by the USSR it is? USSR no aDYVIZIYa SS GALICIA fought FOR UKRAINE AND SHE least are on the world map and in Russia there is a RF where normal Russians because like you live in public places. Can teach on the map is the territory where yetnichnyh Russians?
It does not reply to my post and questions.I advise you to learn to think logically if you can not understand the language? I can write in the language 
underdeveloped! shut up and bend as perished soviet power 
Konovalets Bandera and others do not perished ingloriously, thanks to them we have no idea of ​​the state of Ukraine died and it is the Russians do not have their yetnichnoyi territory and live in public places is yelling at the front Zhukov soldiers did not ZHALET Tukhachevsky THIS GAS destroyed Tambov rebels is your Putin organized slaughterhouses Chechen people but Chechens now with other Muslims bends like you and do not in Moscow but is already Moskvabad 
It's your grandparents in Germany after the war raped 2000000 million German women like it when you shot Smolenskom Polish officers and the world lied This makes GERMAN ARMY 
and you are not told how in 1939 came to like you and for what no pilgrimage killing people and vysylyaly in Siberia, and you are not told how the pagans of the NKVD perevdyahalys in shape OUN and killed people ask putlera let her open the archives in case Volhynia and UPA is your grandparents with NKVD pereoditi in shape UPA organized attack on Polish villages as did the Germans sending pereodityh criminals in the form of the Polish army and attacked the station in 1939 m Hleyvitse whether you few examples
and now read what I write conducting a dialogue with the Russian language more as you watch yourself in dialogues with op ALL Google or poke at the age when I enter into a dialogue and do not know the topic, I will ask the op if it is adequate or even though some relevant to the topic at least residing in the territory of the events to your attention here I live and was born in Galicia and the channel wall has a photo commanders SS Division Galicia there is my 2 relatives of one of Ukraine's still alive second recently died and honest info I have on them 
continue from where you got this lie that the OUN was 250 thousand? with inf relative vOUN was approximately 100 thousand ones holding the weapon without soldiers SS Galicia they moved to the side of the OUN mizer survivors Brody and it was those that they OUN banished away to train for my two relatives came dazhe SB OUN to shoot for what they signed up for the Division when the Germans announced a set Shukhevych decreed the execution of those who go to the Division and began to execute the decree and were the victims and then abruptly canceled
continue but then gamers and fax was not to give a retreat and then decided to invoke the Division to steal their weapons and learned that individuals decision was more confusing many Gestapo caught stealing weapons from the conversation was brief VYSHAK once in Galicia will then ask the older people in a cowardly fought NKVD dressed in Bandera and came to the house in the village and asked to eat and people fed Bandera and where people could come to know who forbid prblemy on both sides then this tyne know?
and now the division of the words of my cousin when the Germans announced it set the Division subscribed from 80 to 86 thousand people were selected and were enrolled in 13 thousand REQUIREMENTS SS relative said that tyanuly picked somewhere in 90% of the criteria his colleague not enrolled for a what was it you vidkolenyy tooth prsto example and scoop took over bangs all blind curves and humpback 
Russian military alike.
Right, Evgeny Paton was Rus, which means a Ukrainian, rather than Russian-Moskal.It's time.Second, the OUN was during World Abkhazia and it was not.And third: SpetsFormyrovanye "Wife" Kaminsky Brigade Tankovaya Brigade "Russland" Russian National People's Army detachments Dyversantov Dyvyzyy ROA, ROA adolescents Formation in Crimea Dyvyzyya "Background Shtumpfeld" Dobrovolcheskyy battalion "Varyag" The first Russian National Army.This is not a complete list.
1.I never said that SS "Galicia" for us heroyi.2.Banderists-not bastards!3.You will find the video of "hero ROA" and read the comments, yeah.Then something will kazaty.4.SS "Galicia" is destroying Ukrainian as did the Bolsheviks and NKVD.5.OUN was during the Second World War, explain to me where it came in Abkhazia and that "sosluzhyvtsы" could you this to tell you that, 100 years?
I think you understand Ukrainian.That is against such as you, the Ukrainian (and nationalists especially) do not have, because you are Russian, but not a Muscovite.Nationalism, the highest expression of patriotism.What's wrong with that distinctive nation proud of its heroes (I'm not a "Galicia" of UPA, Petliura) and loves his country?This is our story, this is Ukraine.Banderists not kill Ukrainian and children slaughtered wells, as did the NKVD and KGB peredyahnuti in Bandera.Poles were beaten, but just did soldiers in Germany ...
... And rightly so.UPA fought until 1956 and did not give up.Do not let the Lord endure Baturin, famine, red in his own blood UNR.
By the way, "Galicians" yly the Division to dislodge the Bolshevik plague and avenge their loved ones, which killed the murderer of NKVD.Yak said in its report one such dog Stalinist "women and children on Zapadnoy Ukraine we not rasstrelyvaly, so Bludgeons killed."Heroes of War "Galicians" can not be called, but the heroes of Ukraine in principle possible.Basically, they were a part of German weapons, not UPA.Ale it was a struggle against the Soviet occupation, resistance red thugs.Moreover, the war needs an ally.
And the fact that in some regions of Ukraine SS "Galicia" make heroes, it merit such vidryzhok evolution, SP6925, which climbs from his mouth shit that does not fit in his head and his ilk mutated organisms.Personally, you should be ashamed of their countrymen who zasyrayut Online consequences of their own PMS.
In the meantime, you will have these mutated level evolution as covenant cockroach ...Do your own conclusions.
So funny Russian commentators: D
You zabuvaeshsya Katsap! You do not Rusko-you Russians! You name stolen in Russia ascertained.And actually you f mixture monholoidnoi race of the Finno-Finn.And customs have not European and your whole history is a continuous seizure of foreign lands and blood. But do not forget that parents give hrabyly children and grandchildren match.Your dog havkotinnya language is a word you're not a nation but zbrid shit and tsapyachoho litter.Learn the history of Moscow's dogs.On the feast of Ukraine has grow new Kozachata new Vygovska and Bandera!
Fool mongoloid! Our heroes are on their land her people put memory "once erected them and honor them and your occupants forgotten and the damned.UKRAINE IS and Russia there are no RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND YOU Lives in public places 
death of Jews and komunyakam!!
Videos about anything ... Russians bryzhzhat drooling and Ukrainian defend the interests of any district ezrozumiloyi Division ...
if you do not like it - it billows from Ukraine Tuda where your relatives Pupec vyazaly can go there where there are still camps carrion 
Thank you so much and kowtow to our independent Ukraine!! Glory to Heroes! Ukraine will not give any lyahu no Muscovite, period!!
thou shalt perish carrion and suffocate in my own hamni and Hu. those who help you, you fucking,, odnoklitochne creatures, you bitch you is not a man, do something to neuter and sosaty you will be in your Janek
This - our heroes you bastard - no one gave the right oskorblyaty. observe syphilitics Lenin, Stalin and Zhukov other bastards.
Bandera HERO UKRAINE ... it definitely ... and not only osvidchyna person can deny it) so make your conclusions =) bam .....
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
Nye lives Bandera and his state!
In banderlohIv one lane at the head - and that their ass separates into two halves.  Idiotic zombies - wearable with its Bandera like a fool with nothing. 
dull Kremlin propaganda to indoctrinate people. Probably komunyatski executioners sooo afraid that the truth is not climbed a mountain. But nothing in sewed bag not vtayish
False propaganda. Number of negative evaluations evidenced. This video was created on the principle - divide and conquer. Natravyty some other to continue fighting foreheads brother from brother. My grandfathers fought in the UPA and the Red Army. Neither they nor those not killed civilians.
My dear comrades! After all that shit that is done for all the years Russians and zhЫdy, Banderas had every right to do the same with them. What Bandera zhЫdiv ordered to hang on the tree - is good and right. As for zhЫdivskoho pogrom - it lies and nonsense. Ukrainian such pogrom in Lvov do not physically able. By the time the Ukrainian Lviv was 20% of maximum. And even if it was, then yes, they were right!
tovarischi Russians ehayte home
We do not live in history, we have a lot more living witnesses, who did not need to read history books to know the truth. But .... who am I writing? - 98% of the opponents that I write without "iskonno russkogo" mat even express an opinion notcan, the apparatus for thinking and can not speak.Ukrainian brothers, honor their country, their heroes, their language and themselves. Glory to Ukraine!
Surprisingly, this time Russia is struggling with the UPA. What kind of declassification question? In Ukraine - as part of the documents that remained declassified, or in the process of declassification. In Russia, this is not happening. And me and no matter what in Russia. "WESTERN Ukraine Lives ynoy ystorycheskoy pamyatyu "- you are free to write and shoot what you want, but prefer lies. 
Moskalska propaganda
Fu moskalska lie
What happens moskalska right?
Neznuschaysya.nezaselyay необкрадай.невивозь.поважай Rusyn language and culture and live peacefully.Ukrainian slave rose-UPA.Istoriya povtoryayetsya.Neznuschaysya and live peacefully.Since independence from Ukraine bahatsva kidnapped and taken different paths 1000 budgets Ukraine.Fuck lie Soviet zhydiv.ateyistiv that does notwant with their children to fight for the freedom of Israel.Then stabbing bitches.
My father was a Pole, yoho brother organized pogroms.Katsapsko Makina pizdosh.
Dear, swearing - the fruit of your language, not Ukrainian, so we try not to use them in principle. Another question you?
But i nэpravda. Podыvыtsya skylky bandэryffftsy matyukayutsya on yutuby.
Pogroms pizdosh see Korchevsky.Pogroms did polyaky.yakyh in Lviv was dostatnoo.Most lived in Ukrainian cities Jews and 70% for the enemies of the Jews never nothad.Vso pizdosh pictures of slain Ukrainian scoops, just killing for fun Ukrainians.Around Makina pizdosh.
Ukrainian Jews vbyvyly
nimets benderovskyy 
in Ukraini nibы it more trezvyh same as i in moskaliv majority of young pyutoslyachi sykli under the name of beer 
Najera us your Rush zasrana.Trim their best ever sranyh zabuhanyh rashintsiv from Ukraine.
tvoih zasranыh alkoholiki i completely drug addicts in italii prizhay i vonы too ukraintsi
PYZDETS!! wondering where you got hold of these pamphlets? and above all in rhyme 
Chanba Ukraine!!!!!!!! These heroes that kill little children and women.Chanba, Chanba, Chanba Ukrainian people at all times!You will burn in hell!
If I was a Jew - would have lived in Israel, I did not know you at all.To enlighten you a little, in the times of the Middle Ages the majority of trade opertatsiy carried out most of them. Hence the riots. To avoid paying the debts of the Jews, it was easier ix burn alive. But development finance in Europe was impossible without them. 
so can me make one obrezanye and smotatsya from you in Israel?I generally believed that nationalists speak only the language of the glorious and great Bandera, and you're so good shprehayesh moskalskoyu. So who are you?
Why are you so stupid as rat
Suddenly, brutally, moskalsko-komunyatska propohanda. In this provocative cheap Bolshevik propohondu already daaavno nobody is even in Moscow ...
5lypnya 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. For him to Berlin went wife of Yaroslav Bandera originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (in 1942 killed Polish guards Capo in Auschwitz concentration camp, one of the detachments of the resistance led by younger brother Stephen - Bogdan. He died in 1942 or 1943 - father Stephen was killed by the Soviets in 1941
need to kill every last Banderas.
Bitch brehuchi moskalski!
This is absolutely false cheap lipanyna designed to indoctrinate the masses stupid not thinking!pyzdity and perebrihuvaty can each cattle ... bezmozhla propaganda ... sucks!
a story with elements moskalskoyi tales .. slabointelektualnyh for these people .. I see a lot of accumulated here!Bandera man of high values ​​.. thank you mother Ukraine sent us this man!
Fuuuu solid moskalska lie!
About author Andrew Sheptytsky cowardly lying (what can you do now Russian journalists all such). There is historical evidence that Sheptytsky really hid Jewish children. Testimony of Rabbi David Kahana example. Director of the Institute for Jewish Studies Finberg wrote: "We are not given the proper respect sacrifice Metropolitan and his entourage in the case of saving Jews during the Second World War"
The fact that J. Stetsko knew about German plans to destroy the Jews. And despite the fact that the "final solution" of the Jewish question Liabilities "Nazis adopted in January 1942. 
"In the eyes of Ukrainian tolpы polytseyskye killed and yzbyvaly Jews" - comments by newsreel footage. But there is no visible police but civilians. there is not clear that they were Ukrainian. Each nation has its heroes and its leftovers. In Baty Ukrainian Jews could also Poles
About the murder of Ukrainian Jews in Lviv. 1945. in Kiev in hot pursuit published notices of special government commission "of crimes the Germans in the Lviv region." They called poyimenno than 200 Gestapo executioners, but there was no Ukrainian surnames
By the film constantly emphasizes that Ukrainian nationalists destroyed the Jews. But not a word said by the NKVD in 1939, 1941. destroyed the Jews - the bourgeoisie, owners, shops. 
In Lipnikah 26. March 1943 upa killing 179 Poles, 4 hidden Jews. The life runs 500 persons in this two-year-old Miroslav Hermashevski, astronaut later submitted to the hands materito is true 
@ Shiloh1944Przemysl, Sanok, Chelm, Rzeszow = Ukraine. And it has been the Ukrainian and will
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
But who the hell are you provoke Poles? better to quietly prove specific facts that Bandera hero and not a bandit, as they think. Not pozorsya lie down to sleep. For Poles think that in Ukraine all these morons like you :)
Without Stephen independent Ukraine would not ever!
Hey, you Moskalyk illiterate! Russia - a Katsapstan, not Russia! Russia - this is Ukraine, and Ukraine was in terms of anthropology - the birthplace of "Slavs", and Nazism, and Ukrainian nationalism features? So sho sit in his Katsapstani and tryndy that in chomy you nichorta not tyamysh. Milkorozmirnyy imperialists!
pyanyy you again to the keyboard doliz and clatter. bit you go from alcoholism
Bolsheviks is lowbrow, they killed millions of people.Pity that we in Ukraine is degraded society.The film is in the best style of Russian propaganda.
Read our names! Do not forget.Memory Eternal Hero of Ukraine! Remember Ukrainian knights history of our people is deep and heartfelt. Wealth Ukrainian - infinite. Remember who we are and who fought. Do not lose faith, brothers! Together we will win!The heroic struggle against the UPA soldiers of Polish, German and Moscow occupants will live through the ages. Their sacrifice is an example for young independent Ukraine. 
5lypnya 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. For him to Berlin went wife of Yaroslav Bandera originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (in 1942 killed Polish guards Capo in Auschwitz concentration camp, one of the detachments of the resistance led by younger brother Stephen - Bogdan. He died in 1942 or 1943 - father Stephen was killed by the Soviets in 1941 
1941-1943 years in Babi Yar shot 621 member of the OUN, among them the famous Ukrainian poetess Elena Teliha with her husband
Brothers Bandera Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (murdered in 1942 in Auschwitz concentration camp One of the units upa resistance led by younger brother Stephen - Bogdan. He died in 1942 or 1943 - father Stephen was killed by the Soviets in 1941
You're an idiot, Bandera was a political leader, not the military, he did not place in the fighting.
Pretty and pretty one-sided, though interesting.Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the heroes!
Death komunyakam!Thank Bandera!
The film is deliberately degrading Ukrainian heroes and the national liberation struggle ... Shame! Kremlin, odumaysya - on your conscience, miyony Ukrainian lives! ....
Another KHBeshnyy ublyudochnyy propaganda movie
In banderlohIv one lane at the head - and that their ass separates into two halves. Idiotic zombies - wearable with its Bandera like a fool with nothing. 
Videos wonderful author Respect pleased that in Chernigov is patriotyP.S. two dyslayky put NKVDysty
Done! Bad that weak informational support.
Curses abomination Patriot (Valentine Boat) curses abomination patriots "tillage", "Six" and KGB officer shny name is back in the USSR - Paradise chiefs, prison rabble ... Fascists, Communists hype: Selling dogs - Moscow holuynya, Full Cottage and the new GB-tion for their wallets frightened slaves and slave curses Bandera Because life is not sold from vile poisons fell ... But lives! There USSR! Bandera - a star in the constellation. Behind him lining up to Trymtyat bandits and executioners - gets lighter in the yard
Let spit his poison-Descendants liars NKVD-istiv.From Bandera same without prisoners and komunistivMy sing Red Ruta!
Now you again pozv'yazuvavshy bones, trading and wholesale and retail, new executioners pryproshuyete in hostiNa Ukrainian lard and bread.You'll wander through exile, until all hell will not take, because you know - still not dead UkrayinaI not die!
Then you have people called dogs because you licked the Germans shoes, shouted "Heil" hoarse bass and "still alive ..." roared loudly. Where do you go - there is wasteland and ruins and corpses not fit into pits - spitting blood "mummy Ukraine" On the muzzle you and your masters. You have already cuts her niece, and sold to us throughout the whole earth, if then in country for reinforcements from the east did not return "Russians."
BANDEROVTSEV PROKLYNAET FULL UKRAYNAU THEM NO NEITHER CHEHO CHELOVECHNOHO, ONLY HANDS AND THEY NOHYKOTORЫMY DELAYUT dirty tricks EVERYTHING FOR UKRAINE AND PEOPLES!I met with you in the days of strict When red lights yazykySyahaly from the ground during the dawn sky torn aircraft.
how much hatred and ukrainofobstva in this video, intonation lead ... 1.34-1.42 striking example! Disgusting to watch this movie ... - Slander!Bandera - SYMBOL OF UKRAINE undefeated, so it is so hated and yet Ukrainophobes AFRAID!GLORY UKRAINE!Heroes hall of fame!
Level film comparable level of development some Russian "portyanok." I wish people who look at history through the prism of false "journalists" like Mlechyna. The truth will win!
HAHAHA! Muscovite only those movies and see. Minimum faktazh (because the brain does not last all make sense) and plenty of flames. These are named like this after the soul)))
and human language? nothing is certain!
pshek know what? when Ukrainian Examine then talk! But big steps do, once you understand everything else could be the answer, in general it would be great, but now you like my dog, supposedly know and can not say anything :)
Mouth shut, cattle nowt. Do not you know what is happening in Ukraine at the time, soviet cant misunderstanding.GLORY UKRAINE!Heroes hall of fame!
Take Moskal in the history of Kievan Rus' and they lyshatsya with nothing
Katsap tv kindle more nonsense and not think?
This film is made on orders from the Kremlin and intended to humiliate the Ukrainian and the idea of ​​our national liberation struggle, however, to make confusion between the words "yanamy .... While in Russia are Moscow, Moscow Kremlin is, until in our lands will be trouble ... GLORY UKRAINE!
author of the film continually emphasizes that Ukrainian hated Poles, but not a word said about the Poles brutally humiliated Galicians. Forbidden Ukrainian language, Ukrainian same name replaced Rusyn. Ukrainian tried opolyachyty, inclined to change faith. most fertile lands Poles gave their veterans (precipitator). In 1930. government began the policy of pacification (appeasement) Galicians. One thing led to another violent 
By the end of the eighteenth century. European cartographers on the map of the territory of modern Ukraine called Rus, was called Zaporozhye Cossack state (in some versions Cossack land), Western Ukraine called Red Russia, as Belarus called White Russia. The territory of modern Russia (middle of the band) called Muscovy. Russia its first oitsiyno called Emperor PetroI.Tomu Poles and called Ukrainian-Galician Ruthenians 
Mlyechin accuses OUN terrorists. But the Bolsheviks were not really terrorists. special agent of the NKVD killed the greatest figures of the OUN Konovaltsya Rebet, Bandera 
Complete nonsense. Old Soviet propaganda.
"Nick Lemyk entered the consulate feeling master of life and death" <a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(04*60+30);return false;'> 04:30 </ a> - it is probably from a very serious-preseryoznyh documents such conclusions do. people who protect their land from invaders will always be heroes in their own country, and empire-invaders lipytymut one image bloodthirsty terrorists (as was the case with Ukraine and Russia, the U.S. and Iraq). of those that harm ordinary people who become hostages to foreign ambitions ... "In his house OWN AND TRUTH, and the power and freedom "- PORTRAIT
Evidently crisis hit the Russian propaganda machine. Even though something pleased because assholes who perceived it to be taken in any case, but the quality is lame) short film - messy.
golden words for 5.2!I thank fate for being born Ukrainian!
Another manipulation of sick people. However mishayetsya with half-truths and lies, rumors. And the conclusions made by the viewer in almost every sentence.
"People always have the right to protest oppression"
Do not be indifferent Ukrainian they gave their lives for you and you're indifferent write a few words of thanks will not be callous Ukrainian mine! God Give you happiness and strength.You live and Khokhloma, and zhirkne from the loaf.Only he who once sky tilt your graves, How not betrayed you, humiliated you in country? ..
As you can not stop the river that breaking the ice in the spring rapidly carried to the sea, you can not stop the nation, waking up to life, breaking their kaydany.2. The night was long, but the morning approached, and we will not allow the freedom of all nations rays shone on our slave shackles and we divide them into sunrise svobody.3. We are small, but our voice is heard everywhere in Ukraine, and anyone who has not spidlene heart 5. The main reason misfortunes of our nation - the lack of nationalism Nicholas Mikhnovsky
July 5, 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (philosophy graduate of the University of Lviv) in 1942 killed Polish guards in a concentration camp capo-AushvitsAndriya Mikhailovich Bandera - father Stephen, was killed by the Soviets. Sisters Oksana and Martha-Mary in 1941, was arrested and exiled to Siberia 
Firstly, I'm not offended. Do not insult you and me, if you are educated person. Boys collaborated with the Germans thought Hitler will be independent Ukraine. Because his own against Communist Russia was almost impossible to win this war.  
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
Nye lives Bandera and his state!
Do not be indifferent Ukrainian they gave their lives for you and you're indifferent write a few words of thanks will not be callous Ukrainian mine! God Give you happiness and strength.You live and Khokhloma, and zhirkne from the loaf.Only he who once sky tilt your graves, How not betrayed you, humiliated you in country.?
and this you can Victims of Communism
Glory to the nation! Katsap simply ignore, as if they were not there - the most insidious and disgusting people on the planet Earth!
0674465206 Girls school 200 * 75 * 89 * Mohylianka * Ternopil * Call
You're not Ukrainian, and Little Russian, hahol sranyy. "Long otorvannыe from Total russkogo" east of Ukraine, as Russia is Ukraine, and you apostates skis ass Muscovites.East and West of Ukraine only ethnic group separate from Russian, and you dybil this and did not know that "triyedinstva Slavs" is another name-Russian chauvinism.I Sumy, not even from Galicia region and have national consciousness, and you bitch betrayed and sold to Ukraine.Because like you took Inglourious Pereyaslav Rada, burned in January and fell UNR.
Glory to our Bandera and all the soldiers who have a free Ukraine head laid.
Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian! Ukraine is Ukrainian!
not properly "torch" - because it is purely katsapska case, and torchlight procession was about 5 thousand people
it Katsap Winnie the destruction of Ukrainian with you on yednuvatys I agree - the capital Kyiv, the Ukrainian language, currency Australian dollar then we agree on yednuyemosya Katsap "brother"? 
fool, I live in Ternopil, initially looked to be where I am, and then wrote his fuck ...
Unfortunately, rashofashyzm, covered the ideas of Pan-Slavism, is not inferior to German!
Of course! How can! You do Belenkaya sheep!That's just the genocide of the Chechen people No words Cover!And outright assimilation Belarusians through destruction uu language and culture, so much like assimilation western Polish lands Germans!And to the "ukropeyskoho fascism" would be interesting to hear another unsubstantiated addle stuff?
Of course you do not vote! That we voted for Zhyrika! It's our deputy Govorukhin and Zatulin who constantly cry about returning Crimea! Will go to Sevastopol and visit Hill of Glory! There Ukrainian surnames more than n! And in the 19th century. Ukrainian as there lay the bones! Remember only sailor cat! And our land do not worry. Better think of your! Soon you in Chinese to come to the Urals! And the Chechens and Belarusians silent! You know that there is nothing kryty!
And again silent on MPs, writing off all "boltovnyu"!Certainly not true! As is the fact that they "russkiye"! And if you fall even lower, since the early 18th century. Tatars lived there alone! But I never heard the slogans of the Tartars that Crimea - Tatar!
There are chauvinists as in you do not go for election! They are our land to anything! It's everything you land enough! Soon the Chinese come to the Urals, and you want all the land! 
And what is the difference between extremists?
"Extremism (from Lat. Extremus - extreme) - the tendency to extreme views and actions mainly in politics, ideological confrontation. There are left and right extremism. A characteristic feature of right-wing extremism is the desire to resist progressive changes in society, reverse it or at least keep intact the status quo. "A provoking disorder, say, in Poland during the World Cup! Terrorism murder of former FSB officer Alexander Litvinenko, etc.
This provoked the Poles! Of course! That they were going under the red crescent-hammer flags! And I think, who is it? Good that you've opened my eyes.It turns out that they passed a law banning totalitarian symbols, including this flag, and then forgotten? Form 
And you write about Chechnya blatant nonsense! You try to find data on the current census!! They zaserecheni! And those suggestive Center Alyenyevodstva 100% lie! And compare the data for 1992! Number ethnic population of Ichkeria reduced almost by half! And to consider that since 1992, there had to be growth! This is genocide! The very real genocide! Which is your fault Katsapstan!
There has not been many Russians! Go to their age and even look at the numbers allowed FSB! This is genocide! Therefore Chechens give refugee status to beloved European countries, Britain and the United States. 
You do that all by fools have? Dial in Wiki "Population of Chechnya" and see. What 700,000. And look at manfipulyatsiyi when the Republic of Ichkeria doplyusovuyut Ingushetia and when to forget about it!
We like you've already called the "descendants vspinurasstryelyanyhdyedushek"! What alyen not so sure it "dyedunkye" shot in the back! About "babushyek" something else would come up with!
Right now! Derzsy pocket Shire, and do not forget to bow down :)))))))))))
very well how to react Katsap-komunyaky) zahlynutsya his saliva smelly katsapskoyu Ukraine and the glory forever! and btw Katsap-komunyaky you died 
stupid Russians themselves have signed a treaty of alliance with them (the Molotov-libentropa) and now someone called fascists ... themselves supported them and helped with food and all what they could ... and now blame everyone else ... silent alone Vlasov - Moskal, who fought on the side of the Nazis ...
mb is too radical for most, but it says right. Our Ukrainian authorities will be terrible for enemies. is fast approaching a time when Ukraine will live with Ukrainian, not shovels and malorosySLAVA UKRAINE!
Good guy says good politician would.It should be given the power to foreigners know their place.
Defender Ukraine) keep it up
I do not understand why the Russians are watching this video, do not you shoot, and your comments just teasing, do not fear that we shall come and shall kill everyone? (Well myzh Banderists)
Pff .. Combining healthy nationalism and liberalism (no gay parades tolerastii etc.) and make Ukraine a developed country. If in a speech this nationalist Bandera change - by Lenin, Ukraine - the USSR, nationalism - by communism, it would be typical Bolshevik)))
Well done, lad reliable.Glory to Heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
The guy look too characteristic to hopnikiv subculture, but show me a hopnika that they can prepare a speech to cultural broadcasting.
In nёm plachet mental hospital.Posted by Dmitry Nekohda perfectly Pavlыchko.: Under New York camps viyskoviSyno yellow with flags.How to kill with blood or without blood, there are training professors.They are all masters of blow back, halter, gangsters, zbuyi in the struggle for "Free Ukraine" offer their methods ... 
O my God, and who it is their students who are these pale boys? Do they breathed words hadyuchni kravtsivy, Stetska Malaniuk? Creeps they hroby in clay, Feats silent sad - The children katrupyv in Volyn Well, he excelled in My Lai ... Ditvaky diaspora rotten, hear my call of: your teachers - they are not heroes, but ordinary murderers and thieves ... Vyplyuyte Bandera henbane, Wash your body with gall, no hunovi not serve or prepare, and you will serve themselves.
Who let the clone Mykhalchyshyn))) In Libycha gestures as Yura EM)
all Russians put dislayk ... although the guy really significant emotional ...
Hopefully, this vylupok already nuthouse - obviously: psychopathy + schizophrenia. He was even in jail is not the place - only kulpar.
Give him mashynhever and he will turn the world!
chock, you do not like?
You're not understood! Wiene not serve the Germans did not fulfill their orders. He used their support and assistance in the fight against the occupying forces of Poles / Bolsheviks. And the more Stashinsky was recruited by the KGB special agent, not just Ukrainian! Distinguish things!
If only all these were like this guy ...! Glory to Ukraine! 
Only when we have a generation we will win Ukraine ...!GLORY UKRAINE ....!!
This is not a free nationalist and member of the "Patriot of Ukraine"
Vladaryuyuye ... who in Ukraine, who owns "our" government? ...?!
Just ... power in Ukraine warmed up and now especially fueling these sentiments radical resistance, waited mega-selling ... Ukraine, its subsoil and its heroes, culture, language, us, Mr. <wbr>-ashoyu work, tolerance and patience and all for their own enrichment.And now progressing Andrew Libycha position because they do not see light at end of tunnel .. so staged nature, that for their rights, their place on the need to fight ..It is sad to me my people, because when Zawiya fascism then present nationalism will still pray!!
We live in a state of Ukraine, Ukrainian question:-in their home you feel the owners?Our nation is dominant in my country?Our culture, song, language, traditions and revered dominanntni among the so-called "Ukrainian people" ...I am a Ukrainian and see that no!I feel with you bad-Ukrainian patriot ...Past and especially present government manipulates and spreads a whole different-vaccinated immuno-vaccinated neighbors empires ...
Soviet in psychiatric hospitals in recent years this lyudynonepnavysnytskoyi authorities were leading by the massacre of political opponents ...You see very knowledgeable so-wishful thinking.Bandera-Napoleon ...)))N <wbr>-apoleon invader as your Lenin, Stalin, who finished his life in agony under the control spets.medykiv in the Kremlin elite nuthouse and Bandera politician, who organized resistance unsurpassed Moscow invaders on his Ukrainian homeland ...Mental hospital maryatsya probably good Soviets pay you for it ...
Though aggressive, but support
And right, arrived in a foreign country, so Honor country which came to live. Learn the language! What kind of rudeness! I also would not sell anything, nor pidskazav. And it worldwide so. Will go to Germany and to Speak English, you ignore at best, and at worst will send gesture. And this is very correct. In the Czech Republic the same. In Novehiyi, get a job, to not knowing the Norwegian language, almost unreal. With that, they speak fluent English. So it should be!
And longer. You perehybayesh stick. It does not have to be!As thou logic Europeans that pryyhav at some time in the Ukraine and speaks only English will not buy anything!? This is not right! In Europe turn away from you in case you want to settle down to work, and you do not know the language. This right is particularly concerning civil servants and teachers! And what about what you said - this is a side effect of nationalist propaganda.Glory to Ukraine!
I respect boy for sincerity. Thanks Kipiani and other liberastam this skin will know the whole country!
I see so katsapnyu nifiha not taught.Since Khmelnytsky and ending Makhno and Bandera, always - when it came to log began to swing right on Ukrainian soil - sooner or later the "yavvlyatsya are these peasants and will again Koliivshina, Khmelnytsky or Volyn.And while zhydok - Russian Minister of Education, will be called the Ukrainian language language dork and Ukrainian waiters - their number will grow geometrically.And when it blows off - do not be offended.
You Lutsk and kaTsapyachym tongue ponapysuvav here? Here you Katsap and liar Hnydiuk descendant "asvabadityelyey" in Ukrainian "kosysh"? Tpoyu tsapyachu face apparently from a distance, stop, kremlyad, nonsense writing.
And what do you Katsap in Raska not going to live?Are you afraid that you tsape Chechens time in the subway, or theater is not blown? Heroy Katsap, posmihnuv) you come in large numbers here in Ukraine ... worse chock behave ... tsapyache family.
you are here on this dude as diarrhea Stairway to comment, katsapnya srana probably have their fundamentals complexes on the word "Bandera" Ukraine should rename in Bandera and katsapstan choke in their own diarrhea! :)) dude said all right, but you still Katsap sraty to comment!))))) nothing nothing howling will be time when memory "Bandera monument will stand in Maskvabadi! but you Katsap it shall see :)))) Glory to Ukraine! Glory to the Nation! 
Fully support the above nationalist!Down with the Jews and dyermokrativ!Thank Bandera hero!The enemy bullet in the forehead!
Ukraine above all!1,488
brake vodochku animal katsapska!He stands in front of people and you Stairs havnyetsomv comment under his video!))) Muscovite felt the difference? 
808 Views! Sieg Heil!
I know this guy, the nationalists to the bone marrow, a worthy follower Dontsov, each of you would be stuffed in ideology for the belt!And he tells the truth in doubt read the father of Ukrainian nationalism Dontsov that more curses cyl liberals dyermokrativ and tolerastiv!Glory to Ukraine!
Who is on the video? Do not call no name no name just a cliche "Ukrainian nationalist". It seems that it mishandled Cossack, because man can not be in such tight bond perception of reality. <A href = '#' onclick = 'yt.www.watch.player.seekTo (1 * 60 +21); return false ; '> 1:21 </ a>
Andrew Libych, activist organization "Patriot of Ukraine"
In the ass I've seen DAUNetskyy court. Stepan Bandera as it was and is a hero to millions of Ukrainian people. A DAUNetsko-katsapske cattle shall ask for Stalin and Lenin. 
Honestly I do not know who actually Bandera - hero or villain, but still Yanik Dovboyob.
I have 2 grandfather were Banderas "How do I know the truth," "I live on this earth," I think it's you little you know about the history of Ukraine!90% of that HISTORY YOU "Muscovite" (otherwise YOU can not be named) takes (A SUBMIT it through small prize TRUTH) is a stereotype (memes, information viruses that OTUPLYAYUT mass consciousness!!!! !!!!<wbr> -!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) And if you really want to know the truth, come to the city (west Ukraine) and hear her from living witnesses!!!
Da! Just be further from those young fools like you.
I have 2 grandfather were Banderas "How do I know the truth," "I live on this earth," I think it's you little you know about the history of Ukraine!90% of that HISTORY YOU "Muscovite" (otherwise YOU can not be named) takes (A SUBMIT it through small prize TRUTH) is a stereotype (memes, information viruses that OTUPLYAYUT mass consciousness!!!! !!!!<wbr> -!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) And if you really want to know the truth, come to the city (west Ukraine) and hear her from living witnesses!!!PS Sorry for Moskal))
I have 2 grandfather were Banderas "How do I know the truth," "I live on this earth," I think it's you little you know about the history of Ukraine!90% of that HISTORY YOU "Muscovite" (otherwise YOU can not be named) takes (A SUBMIT it through small prize TRUTH) is a stereotype (memes, information viruses that OTUPLYAYUT mass consciousness!!!! !!!!<wbr> -!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) And if you really want to know the truth, come to the city (west Ukraine) and hear her from living witnesses!!!PS Sorry for Moskal))
Nope, Moscow and St. Petersburg - Ukrainian! )
Bandera criminal and war criminal from all points of view. Maybe for Galicia he and his, but for Ukraine - he guide the enemy, who swore allegiance to Hitler and Germanic army, organizer of many massacres of Ukrainian and Polish. Unitarians can not be a true Ukrainian, Ukraine eyelids struggled against the papacy, Uniates transferred his submission. Ukraine - Orthodox country since St.Olga and St.. Vladimir. All that - against betrayal!
Happy birthday father Stepan!Glory to the heroes of Ukraine!Thank Miroslav D., you are!
Very beautiful poem! Thank you, Miroslav D.. 
SDOHNY degenerate POLYTSAYA!  Your comments psы bastards banderoyudы 25 rokyv HN and what good would zrobыlы and tylky all people vydobralы ... 
Typical Russian propaganda, they were good, nothing we do, but we are so bad and cruel see all enemies. This video is just ridiculous, there is no truth and can show to people who do not know the history of Western Ukraine.
pleases your objective self-criticism
if not for the UPA would be now we Muscovite
how much time has passed and the Judeo-Nazis Moscow and then lie
Properly do when removing the right and competent commentary zlyshayuyay stupid and obscene comments marazmatykiv cattle, that is exactly what we all help, but I still quote the words of the author removed comments.* I can not understand why the average citizen of Ukraine's history. But even in such a perverted form. Maybe enough to intimidate people and search her enemies.Read a story you will not find one fact that Ukraine has gone to war on any state, or admired someone's territory.*
I can not understand why the average citizen of Ukraine's history. But even in such a perverted form. Maybe enough to intimidate people and search her enemies.Read a story you will not find one fact that Ukraine has gone to war on any state, or admired someone's territory.It's time to tell people about their (characters) RFPROA (vlasivtsi) NRPRObschestvo belыh-88NNPNatsyonal-sotsyalystycheskoe obschestvoNatsyonalno patryotycheskyy-front "Memory" party "National Front" So many of us who?
How so dude in a red scarf prevented pussy, walks through our holy places and all Hearn tells him if in those days about which he says in that scarf and hung to our guys.
I do not know where you Moskalyk but you just handubas in some 2stepeni
This prsto another Russian oppression Ukraine
"Has the bandit, who defends his land, Who for freedom dies in battle, who punched the enemy strichaye In hyzhtsi native, native woods? Have a bandit who loves home, Whoever knees in humility not die, He who defends their mother and baby, tell me that his fault? No, you were not bandits! - Let palms squeezed until blood honest indignation, those same bandits, robbers legitimate deliverer What is sometimes called. "
Good poem, famous.Help me understand please that the author, it is interesting to know.Thank honest people of Ukraine.
Ukrainian and kill you on the Muscophiles. Their only tomb, as humpback correct. Do any of you nice to read all this stuff, which caused the entire Ukrainian hiss? Have ignore. Let each of them compete better hating Ukraine and more like rasyeyu. And I go out of topic.
at their grandparents podyvitsya. And Banderas - our heroes.
It is better to keep quiet, so I see that you are clerks. All you katsapykam and Moskalyk burn in Buchenwald. I can call "our" because my birthplace Kirovohrad and Kiev region. Come, though in one Ukrainian village in the central or western Ukraine and say that stalin hero. Once you and suspended to the branches. 
Stupid people with stupid comments. Read the book smart can understand the difference between Nazism, fascism and nationalism. A man who does not know the difference and scribbling commentary in my worldview equal monkeys.
Sam you do not understand. 
You "Shame" of Ukraine. And Stepan Bandera - Hero of Ukraine.
Well of course. You Moskalyk the communists told you so soon and believe. Bandera killer for you, and Stalin - a holy man. That is for you and we do not like.
I understand, I want you back in the USSR. By starvation, executions, fighting intelegentsii to repression.
I see that you're smart. Punctuation you in there in general. More words are not correctly writing. Learned in some seminary. And shows his ignorance. 
Katsap as always shit pours those who oppose them was ... and Ye.Dupoyu on torch svynotu) 
Stories do not know. You Moskalyk doing some silly movies and believe it. And do you Moskalyk to our heroes?
Another lie from the Kremlin. moskalska abomination this film, once again humiliates Ukrainian heroes and ochornyuye our national liberation struggle. Yes, our hero Bandera, Shukhevych Stetsko ... And for you who? Lenin, Stalin, Khrushchev, in whose hands the blood nevynnoubiyennyh million Ukrainian? ..
Learn the history boy. First, find out who is Stalin - a murderer. And Bandera did not lose! USSR is now? No. Germany is now? No. And Ukraine is now.
Dybil - 3rd Reich there. Take continue their ukrayinofobski movies. Follow communist killers. Oh, Bandera people our hero Vedas Stepan and again our boy. 
Well for "ruzzkyh." And Ukrainians are not heroes.
Which country are heroes! For a long time you will be in Europe and in the hall, I doubt that Ukraine as a country free, I think Russia will be with you together. Bandera and fascist murderers of women and children, and betrayed the Ukrainian people, and it was sold in Germany as sold pigs.
you just buff diagnose young man, or mliesh the thought I gave this rebuff uncle dolboebu. I this Fine chappy. Well mliy and further alye not long. Nothing in life just do not buvaye.yak and our discussion with you.Now you can show off your korefanam. that went way Kozak-sorcerer and now syzhu and think. or obisratysya or immediately same drown .....
Fuuuu solid moskalska lie!
You're wrong - Ukraine - it is Russ Kiev! Orban in VI cnt. Ukrainian mentions in the area. The famous "Encyclopedia of European" refers to IX cnt. the inhabitants of Rus - Ukrainian. Ukrainian in Europe recently named as Rusyns, Ruthenians, Rus, Ross, Rusnak ...Can not somebody heir of the people, sir.
You - stupid Muscovite. For Poles do not speak. Ukrainian - this Russa, whore your mother.
You're not a Pole. You - the scum of Poland. In Poland, normal people. And thy conception - from drunken Moskal. Praise and Poland, and Russia, Ukraine, Poland, who bore! 
Most advanced civilization of Europe's largest empire - Kievan Rus. From birth Kyiv went Poles. Poles fared better - not so Muscovy occupied wild-Horde as Ukraine. In Poland, there was three of famine, in Poland there was no mass terror Bolshevik Zionists. Do not show finger fatally shot by the Bolsheviks Ukraine.More will be friends against wild Moscow, fool sir.
The value of a principal that was in the 13th century. Then later. Lvivv was at different times in different countries occupied. Kyiv also 340 years was occupied Muscovy. That does not mean that Kyiv is a Russian city. 
Lviv was founded Kyiv Prince - King of Ukraine, Galicia-Volyn Principality - Daniel Galician. He also founded the city Holm (Helm), which was for a time its capital, and which now appeared in Poland, Ukraine with no claim, although there is a historical ethnic Ukrainian lands, sir. 
Glory to Stepan Bandera and his followers!!
Andrew Libych, activist organization "Patriot of Ukraine"
Glory to the nation!Glory to Heroes!Lugansk fellows, you have a little ... but it all starts with malohoBoritesya and overcome 
In banderlohIv one lane at the head - and that their ass separates into two halves. Idiotic zombies - wearable with its Bandera like a fool with nothing. 
I can not understand who we are bandits ----- UKRAINIAN? Who never fought on foreign soil, not to infringe or on whose independence is simply defending his home and time has shown that they have that right.Are all the other Russians, Poles, Jews ... who appeared sovyetskoyi members of a criminal government that hated, enslaved, destroy the Ukrainian nation in its own land.  
Good poem, famous.Help me understand please that the author, it is interesting to know.Thank honest people of Ukraine.
Bandera, Shukhevych - fascist heroes
Clava Ukraine.Finally figured Ukraine and Kyiv, Ukrainian, community keep it up.Heroes fame.
Together with the Ukrainian. With Ukraine's freedom forever.
Freedom - the only force Ukrainian!
M0rtalDEATH888 nyeyeye Moskalyk) need Russian rotten spirit Najera from Ukraine chase!
Shut shut, Katsap, you do have to drive out of the Ukraine and not let here!
katsapnya, Stepan Bandera - the hero of Ukraine!You want it or not - but he is a hero!Glory to Ukraine!
Why Yanukovych himself did not cancel the decree?What is sludge in your pants let loose "strong" leader, but simply informer.
Old song communist imperial times! Your grandparents were killed Ukrainian peasants and transported to Siberia innocent of all Ukrainian!! Shame!
if it is true what you wrote, then I would be proud tilko tym.ukrayinskoyi shame not need to be.
Poor Russians - and only official
Ta da Russians are illiterate, only scored villages Muscovy burst nationalism Nazism =) anyway that confuse liberals with communists =)
Thank Bandera!moskalski critters, Bandera never notwas fascist!
Aaale Karpets)) Ukrainian Even so it did not show on the telly as moskalnya)) They are still afraid of Stepan Bandera!)) Ahaha amused :))) Moskalyk still pissing on the legs with one word, "Bandera" :)))
Stoel shut, dito katsapske.
Ahaha, kachapchehy) What amuses me when you're in the absence of arguments starting to show its own degradation.Although in order to degrade, we should have at least the brain.And whence in katsapcheha brain?Rhetorical question) One little zvyvynka and and lower torso.Their sin :)) Continue))
Hearn scribbled .. scribbled .. and VESTA Kyiv
Glory to Ukraine! The Russians do not need to go in our business!
brilliant idea! destroy Lenin, then launder money for repairing monuments Bandera ...
I respect the Russians.I hate clerks.Glory to Ukraine and Bandera.Read history and you'll understand.
Do not tie the Nazis with patriots. It's in the Nazi government, where millions of Ukrainian and no ukr.shkoly, no ukr.kanalu. On your out when I was born Ukrainian then vynovatyy this? I want all the nations of the world have their own language, culture and their country. Turn on the TV and look at each channel as "dirty". This is not in any country in the world, I have been many times abroad. But how do you be ashamed if you so matyukayeshsya!  I'm really sorry for you. 
Filters that say, Katsap! Vasily right! I agree with him.And like you, we issued from Ukraine!
With such wit you, katsapchyku, Green card is not seen and the English do not need! Learn kitaysku and shafts to Siberia! For dying there rasyeyski alcoholics and populate it smart and sober. And you need new masters to better understand them yellow bottoms lick!
And you're not nervous so katsapenya (whether zhydenya?) inevitably! Everything you know! Just propyl You Own Brain and unable to respond on the merits! No you future rotten family!
It is our nightingale, and such as you may choke in impotent fury, despite a revived language and nation!The enemy - death!
Ukrainians, Poles, Belarusians understand Russian language without translation! And just as stupid as you say "ponimayu longer!"There have future rotten family!GLORIOUS NATION!
Bandera - Hero of Ukraine, who died fighting for our freedom!And killed him zhydenyatko, planted Moscow!And most hitlyerovskymy sluts are n - 1 million in the biggest traitors in the history of mankind kolaborantskiy armiyiyi Vlasov! Tale of destruction Ukrainian - Moscow propaganda.My grandfather passed racial commission in 1943 as a Ukrainian Aryan and went to Nimennychy. They married Frau, whose husband died at the front!In Hitlyera plan was assimilation and not destruction Ukrainian!
Clowns, leave these fables for performances in "Beit CNE <U+0301> Seti" :)
"Mischlinhe" frequently received letters that they were Aryans. Funny muzzle of the leaders of Ukrainian nationalism.At any cap can be put on and it fit well in senahohu.Leo Rebet, Roman Osipovich Shukhevych (well, not Rabinovich), Stepan Bandera (all signs Jew on the face), now Frotman-Tyagnibok, Ira Farion, Mykhalchyshyn (Judeo-churban).
Well that one? They shall be twice the Jews! And make power in Ukraine, Ukrainian Ukrainian them will always honor!We - Ukrainian nationalists and anti-Semites or not chauvinists!
Items no more. Take a Novodvorskaya. A true leader of Ukrainian nationalists succeed. Coming all Pacey will wear is Matsu and damn Russians.
Without your advice and forecasts Can Do!
Our Language - nightingale and legitimate in Ukraine, such as you may choke in impotent fury, despite a revival and language and nation!For Poles - too much hype associated with Soviet propaganda mythology!As for katolitsyzmu - what is worse orthodoxy?Worst ever do without Gd.
So to Moscow - this is Ukrainian land, just Russified. To the north and east of Moscow - Finno-Hungarians dominate. Kursk provinces, Bilhorodschyna, Orlovschyna, Bryansk, Voronezh, Kuban - a primordial ukrayiski earth! Therefore, there is common with us R1a1. And gradually we begin to collect ground. When freedom premozhe. GLORIOUS NATION!
Say yes to those who killed your president. Scary. And then self-esteem, pride but in a glass.
Thanks you for your video and best wishes to honor 70littya UPA + UHVR controlled Tyne OtherSide General UPA \ UHVR Svyatoslav Chuprynky calls enemy soldiers and friends of the UPA in the elections 28 October 2012 to support the honorable second UPA Yushchenko and pray and fight to Tyagnibok and Svoboda were more in friendship of our patriots of Ukraine than zhydykuvatymy PRyBYunyamy and other riznoparttrutnyamy + we win not through elections but through GOD'S REBELLION + Putin and all the evil people perish + GLORY of Ukraine
You must be ebnuvsya!These creatures you have killed millions of people!Creature komunyatski and moskalski!!
Shut katsapopitek.We know better, who we have a hero and who is not.Stepan Bandera - HERO OF UKRAINE!
The richest Jew (oligarch) = thief Ukrainian aktyvivHolosuvaty NO! Oligarchs. Vote NO! korumpovanyhpolitykiv. Force them to leave the Ukraine, not your money!Vote Christian nationalist politicians.Catholic, Orthodox unite under Jesus!Remember Cossacks!
C. Bandera - Hero! Ukrainian Donbass! Glory to Ukraine! 
Thank Bandera! Shame Stalin!
Bandera real hero UKRAINE!! but unfortunately to it "sticky" dyskrydytuyut his pryrivnyuyuchys to it such as Division "Galicia", "Melnykites" and soon possibly Yanukovych.
Even forgot to say that tribes Maya and aliens too Banderists destroyed.
Shame and shame! Bandits of the UPA Bandera brutally killed around 200,000 Poles, children, women, men and the elderly. In Poland during World War II. Currently President Viktor Yushchenko gave him the title of Hero of Ukraine. Shame and shame!
Shame kotsapskomu TV!Glory to Ukraine!!Thank real heroes!!!
Finally! Long live the Ukrainian State!
Muscovite put on his sweatshirt and boots and go eat soup!!!!!!!!!GLORY UKRAINE!!!!!
UKRAINE HERO forever ... God protects from vyblyudkiv and Jews katsapiv morons and Ukraine ... 
Glory to Ukraine GLORY UPA heroes who gave their lives for our homeland, Ukraine!
Nation alcoholics. Terribly lazy alcoholics. But they soon exhale and remain normal, decent and honest Russians. The servants Fuhrer path, they vyzdyhayut from alcohol. Others pryhvostni path, their Chinese drive in the ghetto. 10-15 years and Haplyk hytrosrakomu dvohholovomu eagle.
So pryid and try. Will a Ukrainan fertilize the land. Yakazh you NEDOLYUDYNA.
And who glory. Can chervonopuzym bastards. They are already in hell roasting. You dazhe satanic star. Red, this is satanists. Burn them in hell forever and ever. Thank Nations. Death to the enemies.
I have great respect for the hero Donetsk Ukraine Stepan Bandera! Glory to Ukraine!
I have great respect for the hero Donetsk Ukraine Stepan Bandera! Glory to Ukraine! 
Only God knows who live on these lands. well I would add that not dizhdysya Pole damned. luck to you we will live. bosotoyu you both were with his grandfather and great-grandfather of such ostayetes Polishes tuporyli 
Stepan Bandera, Bandera and his followers - immortal heroes! These are people who challenged global imperialism in the face of Russia and Hitler's Germany and international Zionism Jewish! And Hitler who first correctly udavavsya second freely nations declared nationalist ideas Commonwealth countries against imperialism and internationalism - the traitor highest ideals of freedom and independence Nations international enslavement! Because of his betrayal and lost it! 
"Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes!" Matsu said doedaya-Jew from the U.S..
Dear! Whatever you write, it will not affect the position of the Ukrainian people. The main threat comes from the Muscovites (unfortunately), and Poland - our great friend! All those who fought for Ukraine, for we have heroes. And you obviously regret for the lost Poland "from sea to sea" ...This - the imperial disease. Once it passes ...
Bandera Hero!Glory to Ukraine
Bandera has always been and will always be a hero of Ukraine for the Ukrainian people.And the current government (where there are Ukrainian?) not eternal. Come to an end and this government. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Heroes!
We UKRAINE As a single mother! We are your daughters and sons. And then abroad in the land unknown You often come in dreams. Congratulations Krasno! Happy Knowledge Day! " Excellent!What pulled you to the yoke. Shackles broken, Hope you had. Through the thorns was not in vain! So glory to the heroes! What to fight for your freedom prayed. Life gave, children protected, the state and its language! GLORY UKRAINE!
Glory to Ukraine and her faithful sons Bandera .. Shukhevych!
Wild Ukrainian. Benderivtsi, close your mouth and go to work. As you've all got your hnelym patriotism. Make anything can not just slap their stupid tongues. You can even speak the native language is not vmiete, 
there are many provocateurs.But they all come in Ukrainian, that's what unites them .... and it is normal that foreigners hate Ukraine ... just as they hate Europe and other nations.It's okay, Ukrainian experienced such terrible trouble :)))) now all ok
Our sacrifices are not in vain fell because of our blood will rise, those who accomplish our work. " John of Gaunt 
We? You're katsfpopodibnyy, cattle Moscow does not have the right to identify with the Ukrainian! And I do not zapadenets I UKRAINIAN of Pervomayskaya Mykol.obl as 70% of our country I UKRAINIAN.
We were Division "Galicia" inc Mazepa, Konovalets Miller and they all rushed from one extreme to another. Bandera, albeit radical (what else??), But the first who fought for UKRAINE relying on their own strength.!!
Poet perhaps Lonchyk Chernovetsky? zhzhot stsuko!
Pocket bandyukov court reversed a decree of the president?It is ridiculous that some tsyavka Abdukadyrovabude decide who HERO UKRAINE and who is not.
nor yet nothing undone, but the reason is quite funny, Stepan Bandera had no passport of Ukraine, which they achieved this? Probably nothing.
Do they not canceled as rural court has no right to cancel the presidential decree!
Heroic UPA soldiers! Courageous for throwing children on earth. Brave against women. Brave relatively elderly! Brave to murder innocent defenseless people!Slightly less daring against the SS and the Red Army.
Heroic UPA soldiers! Courageous for throwing children on earth. Brave against women. Brave relatively elderly! Brave to murder innocent defenseless people!Slightly less daring against the SS and the Red Army ...
Thousands of civilians were killed in Siberia ivyvozyly moskovskikaty and provocateurs of the NKVD
as though you were in the West.Ukraine tells here about "peace of Ukrainians" or purely putinTv is all you know?I live here and the witnesses know who killed them and took out much!
Stepan Bandera and the OUN fought for an independent UKRAYiNUproty criminal communist and faschyskoyi invasion.USSR is no more, the Third Reich too. Ukraine - is, like it or not. Moscow chauvinists time vzhezabuty of its imperial habits.
Immediately visible, "Ukrainian".
whom you met cut "ukraynets"?can you kill a man for other beliefs?you sick "opomnytes" fascist just yavlyayeshsya you!
Muscovite has not asked anyone considered a hero.Glory to Heroes! Glory to Stepan Bandera!
Stepan Bandera headed by UPA fought for the liberation of his people to their land.
Thank you. I wonder what that capella singing?
Meanwhile perevertniNehay pidrostayutTa profit this moskaleviHospodaryuvaty and from mother polatanuSorochku shoot.Helpers, subhuman, Mother of torture. "Shevchenko
what a wonderful song.UKRAINE COMES FIRST!
It had to do schesekretar CC president UKRAYiNYKravchuk
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
Bandera was a Nazi mass. It's not good if Ukraine is currently set monuments for these fascists. Me and my friends, we do not visit as long as in Ukraine, as monuments to the Nazis!
I have a different opinion concerning the conduct of Euro 2012 in Lviv, on the contrary it is an attractive city for where live authentic Ukrainian and respect their parents. And not a criminal, like other cities. And if someone does not like the characters, perhaps because he defended Ukrainian rather than Poles and Russians, but for some reason they so despise him. 
If the fight for his Ukrainian state crime, it says not Ukrainian, Why then thousand Ukrainian called Bandera, only then, that speak Ukrainian, and the second living in western Ukraine, and to live in an independent Ukraine. If more wealthy he bourgeois nationalist. . Bandera hero for the Ukrainian, Ukrainian for those who returned from captivity, from exile, conscious, certainly not for the Russians, and others (drugged) who do not want to think of your head.
How to speak on behalf of God, Jesus Christ, you have no rights, and give their opinion with Christ - wrong.
@ Mocny01-Bandera hero for Ukrainian (conscious) Poles in other characters, like the Russians. Fight for their independence, for someone banditry, while others heroism. Loves Ukraine! Her characters, like heroes of Poland, but remember they who fought in Ukraine were occupiers. 
We want to once again prove himself perhaps, that so much like our state, I Ukraine, Poland you. History of the country can now be interpreted in their own way, because so convenient and enjoyable for the soul. Somehow, no one wants to compromise. We must forgive and to recognize errors made policy. Today we have just sympathize thousand Poles who died in Smolensk, it hurts. Who is to blame? People? - No. And maybe the people which seam and supported criminal intent of their leaders. 
<a href='#' onclick='yt.www.watch.player.seekTo(1*60+10);return false;'> 1:10 </ a> where this point? this video?
- D `Thank you, the video file from the documentary film.
In the ass I've seen DAUNetskyy court. Stepan Bandera as it was and is a hero to millions of Ukrainian people.  A DAUNetsko-katsapske cattle shall ask for Stalin and Lenin. 
Well, Stalin was such bullshit life doing. During his reign Siberia "flourished"
Interview interesting, but the design is clearly anhazhovanena favor Riga-gangster government.
in, but the Russians appeared normal, and there is already chock Banderas did not like.Watch the best kind parnuhu and let there comments
Personally, I sympathize Banderas - they fought to all sorts of shobla moskalska not encroach on Ukraine. A whore Russians know about it, so when they perceived that freedom took 10%, then began to babble pigs hyryavi.
I'm sorry the answer to some vano vanidze
Do not worry about it
wow, there's still shit knead ... not tired koprofily?
You are * crap *!The word * crap * for you is pride!!With these words God will punish you and people simply find you * And a black bag to Moscow * k * HACHAM to slaughter sent!
In all Soviet and modern Russian textbooks, Rus people were taught always taught that Belarusian and Ukrainian brothers. Thousands of marriages are concluded annually between Ukrainian and Ruthenian girls and boys.In a lot of Ukrainian lives, but none Ruthenian not apply to Ukrainian bad, and considers them equal and the closest fraternal peoples. At the same time, all Ukrainian Russian enemies and find the forums offend. So teach in Ukrainian schools for Canadian history textbooks that Russians enemies
So what in the freaks are going to "Nazis"?Not phayte here a billion tsilishoyu will!
phrase "the Lviv bыdlo" exists only for those who have never in Ukraine and Europe was not.
true to the way in Armenia on May 9 this is a day of memory I had to communicate with the Galicians they zshodni so that the dead do not fight who wants to let celebrates victory but for some it's the memory of my father, his brother John grandparents were not very happy that day two men of our race flexible back Svoboda need to worry about economic issues of Ukraine was a strong country and so on of Ukraine differently this holiday is seen but do not abuse I thank you very much sir for Ernst 
courteous response I got used to the fact that the bad language Ukrainan react I visited the Crimea I really like it sevastopol intelligent city beats me nobody beat as Lviv, Dnipropetrovsk not byut those who communicate in Russian again thank you for a culture of communication 
This is not an option Banderas also able to shoot in my May 9 is the day in memory those who died during the war in Europe in my father, one brother died in December 1939 the second in December 1943 victory in May but that joy was moim grandfather and grandmother returned two sons and two will never win back the joy so it day memory 
Pydr mambych blockages cocksucker fucked slut konchennoaya
my "thank you" - the only official language in Ukraine. This is not you lev that wild Moksha "sruSSkym tongue" called. :))) HORDYS.
First, whore, with Caucasians at vydiz. :)))) slut. :)))
servants of the king Pu Pashuto and wars breathe, so tso tsapomordyy prepare soon .... like you, in the best traditions katsapstana, whole "woody" in thoroughbred puppies will change. :)
Russ is in Mordovians?? rounders and balalaika - all your "paternal" .... but! forgot!! a caucasian cock in your zhopi. nat. tradition.
in Bandera were otherness whore. they katsapiv fucked. like now ABREK do. :))) pidarky lapotni.
Mordvinians someone "fucked"???????????? :)))))))) <wbr> -))))))))))) impotent lapotnyh most cancer put all.: )))) Teach MAT often, hell balalayeshnyy.
"Nyschaya"?? but what we make 8.3 million lapotnoho Beadle? :)))) (statistics) of something "family" under the barrel does not drive. :))))
Provocateurs. Afraid to put alternative video.
But moskalyaky naspamyly) of nothing)) from the monitor must not go. Obviously, those stupid things nobody reads)))
health was zemlyache. how about a discussion of the "Liberators"? )))) Simply can not accept that they are no longer "nezamenymыe and cold ëþáèìûå")))) regress pomalu.skoro on palm again climbed. the way they have always relied on the opinion of westerns, but when you, as a representative of the East, they said - as always "included" Kremlin fool! " )))) Horde.
came to you looked at the channel through which video you lazysh :)))) somebody from Bandera VIDTRAHAV and released for advertising, you crawl through Bandera video sresh katsapskymy kizyakamy? write a statement to police. even though they can restore your lowered reputation!! Baba himself Naida ... but not tell you that nationalists "raped" any sustained as katsapskyy "patriot." thank sossssyy ... shit.
have you got Katsap - language (body for podlyzivanyya lylyPutynskoy zadnytsы), and we, like most Slavs LANGUAGE. Finno-fin you omongoleny with Moscow ulus. :) our language is recognized as one of the most melodious languages ​​in the world :)))) and your katsapske bleat bleat once was lev language. even the "language" stybzyly.) nothing of his! all stolen. BOSOTA!
thou Katsap, glue obnyuhavsya! I wrote to you, I'm yours "myedvyedyevski" festivals hozhu.
I already know. I have friends armyany, Poles, romun, Belarusians and Rusko and they do not like hamovytyh clerks. Life is complicated, is not it? yesterday spoke in the net of the Don Cossack, so he does not smell digesting this breed moskalyachu like you! :)))) as Novgorod and Siberians.)))))))
prostitutkah not go on, I hvataye and free. but you see I have a problem with "free of charge"? understand .... :) complexes "Great Russian" vidtrahanoho midgets ..... treated emigration to the "family" in Mongolia.
hos is YOU, who fucks: liliPutiny, Jews, Caucasians :))))!!!relax and PLS Get pleasure.
Caucasians are you taking??))) they will sexual partners! (he realizes that you - the passive partner) and with Nazi nit your sossssyya marched at a joint parade in Brest 39r (if you want a video?) Europe and the two shared! you - fascist "sidekick" and manners, invader, the same.
descendants corpse of Lenin obizheni the whole world? they Tsar midget! thats kompleksuyut Horde wild!
Yeah, but to instead Ukraine was kosmos.katsapy hole in her rozrivnyaly and inhabited, built us Kyiv, baptized, taught writing kyryletseyu ........ you what your debilizm not heal?
And what is the other information?Btw sohodi just on the radio in the morning called the regions where the most outstanding salary, it Donetsk and Kharkiv regions lead, so to speak in the "minus".This is the official information.On the subject of Donbass Arena, then pohuhly example althoughbe on how quickly to UEFA EURO 2012 vidreestruvaly appearance streets of Donetsk.There are also photos.And from the front, and the inside-full of props.
Hmm ...In Donetsk, I was not, but was still in Lviv, and I want to say that the city is very good.Judging by the fact that told my brother, who was also there, and there, somehow Donetsk tusklenko looks and so to compare it with Lviv, which will still scrambled eggs with a gift of God :) "We have something" is in Kiev, I do not know where there from Western people go, we just do part-workers, that CS building.And of Donetsk and Luhansk in Kiev on bazaars many vendors and not just about the market, the fact
And with Shukhevych Wehrmacht Hauptmann, too will always?)
remnants of your occupation you in Raska forward to embalm.
congratulations eastern Ukrvyini!!katsapstan-was always the aggressor. they even church itself did hand --- KHBistsku! their main pop KHBist Kirilko once kremlin with permission (license) zavozyv and sold by lhotnyh prices spirtne and cigarettes!!))))) blessed the Russian soldiers to "peacemaking" in Georgia!! imagine that "pious Delhi to" deal with their priests?? TRYMAYEMSYA handful, then no katsapomordyy Muscovite tail at us not raise.
That's exactly what needs to be done. You just need a leader who will unite the whole Ukraine against infidels.
leader Naidu only be in the house poprybyraty (see himself as anthem katsapskoho drove and stinks all over Europe). age "golden otdy" prodovzhuetsya: Finno-Finno-Mongols continued their wild poke methods by His snout into the affairs of others (and not just the same in Ukraine ...) destabilizing factor "so to speak." ))))
Ehesh ... exactly "peacekeeping." 40,000 troops near the Abkhazian border spent teaching "accidentally." As for Putin's patriarchy nachulysya enough. This Cyril should be put in his passport prysvyatiyshomu "persona non grata". How is this "nahlets" pryyidzhaty dares to publicly insult us and our country and put under doubt bases its existence?
no "persona non grata"!!! The more such "yizduniv" as Zhirinovsky Zatulin, pop Kirilko .... - the sooner people will rally and build "Chinese wall" of katsapstana 1 :) 
And why do some wishful perceive reality?
Russians in Ukraine, foreigners and treat them will be like to strangers.
ps and katsapomordyh accumulated here ....... uuuuh!!)))) obizheni, pedarasty! none of them, not like bastards, everywhere they kicked, even small latvia put their cancer pledged "razhavaryvat not great and mighty language" and simply gave citizenship!)))) Beauty!
I saw in the seat and "Raska" and "Parashka" and all this katsapskyy cattle-venihret. world dostatno civilized countries with which there is a desire to communicate. Come and see where the three storey "dugouts" Galicians live! ))))) Zadrypana Udmurtia is seen only on TV, in the suburban "The Jewish village." ! ))))
you're right. not hostrobayteramy of Zech. Ukraine. mainly on moskalschynu travel from regions where your immigrant anthem much. (polukrovok per family pulls) and you're nothing. Katsap, so our problems "sick"??Cleanup his "obodranoy Raschke." can sometime in the next millennium, you will be for the people in the world to accept, and not to shy from both syfilitikiv.
graves of your heroes - you own and take away or carry in a museum. they have nothing to stand in the centers of cities and remind Moscow invaders! thou German occupiers monuments not become?? us too this "memory" is not needed. if you do not like something, then take them to myself from the Baltic states (and you too vozmuschalys), Georgia (and there you buksuvaly) and ....... Rejoice yourself this history "occupations-osvobozhdenyy"
Amen! This is what is really needed to know all this kotsapyu.
Tuda drove provocateurs komunyaky. and n pichkayut false information about those events. Russians Navid Patriots Ukraine. and ask what they are and not give a specific answer. For imbeciles napichkani lzheinformatsiyeyu 
Ignore the katsapskyh fascists! they always have a short memory of the millions dying from their katsapskoyi hands (including our time), and all this "bloody bath" - "liberation" or "peacemaking" justify and most importantly, consider themselves "ystynnыmy pravoslavnыmy "))))) even when killed!illiterate "odnoyazychnyky." Wong wrote one to you))) even in Latin does not read)))) SECOND (koment.nyzhche) plowed - "something all propadut without russia, land ostanovytsya ..."))
Sir, you explain it in vain. To them it's never dopre. Many Navid believe that their love for each European country.
people are not taught history. they read the story that you wrote winners. for them warriors UPA is treacherous. and that the patriots who fought against the Nazis and the Communists. of them began to speak the truth. but I believe that the time all of them will speak of heroes.
22/09/1939. Brest. Sovmestnыy parade of Wehrmacht and Red Army / Marssh Erika - after watching the video, robym conclusions who is a fascist or their supporters! Katsap were the best "podelnykamy" Nazis, even telegrams of congratulations sent to each other: "..... friendship skreplёnaya blood! "-SO - kremlёvskym Nazis have no place neither in Ukraine nor even in Lviv!!
all dyvymsya videos like Katsap with your friends the Nazis marched in the parade: 22/09/1939. Brest. Sovmestnыy parade of Wehrmacht and Red Army / Marssh Erika. Sleep wizened, Kremlin fascists!
Readers history shit. Immediately evident grandfather who fought and who not, lousy nit, cattle.Can only sit on your ass straight. Ukraine and Russia are not enemies, and if they were, then the fault of such cattle as you. U.S. propaganda seen good effect on such poor and disadvantaged corrupt ass ... no words ..... you are not Ukrainian, you rural cattle.
Da. Split into Ukraine Ukrainian patriots and Ukrainophobes.
They are not fascists, as fighters for independence from sovyetskih rats which you protected.
Head I usually write in the cultural form ... and to katsapskyh fag appeal on their offensive because pryyobok rattle climbs into our Ukrainian affairs .. you dick fucking walrus grandson policeman examine history 75% of traitors during the war were clerks. This is your KHBisty released .. Kozlyara nehuy cialists in our country and drink Braga and sosy dick to warm up your goats for gas for the population do not give your all and sell abroad. Cattle bezmozhle. 
Sir, I am from Donetsk, and I fully support you. Moskovytskyh barbarians away!
and I Poltava. Ukraine's eastern provinces most affected by the repression and famine. They died more than 70% of the population. I worry nowadays many Russian nationalists and neo-fascists who do not know the history but I do not call them Russian people .. it freaks among normal, educated and cultural fraternal us Russians ..
In those regions Zara is a serious anti-Ukrainian pro-Russian antyderzhavana propohanda being done with a light hand Moskovytskyh KGB. And people eat. Well, that even though the majority of Ukrainian Himself calls.
no mudoyobok then in Ukraine
Thank Putyenu! 4-th day again for leader?
thou whose "Russian, velykodushnыy" emigrant ZATRAHANYY in our land rights kachayesch??? you, bitch kutsapska, judging by the video tvoemu channel, doing no problems KATSAPIYI and strangers?? scratch "myrotvoryt" in Chechnya, and then a couple of years in your Moscow unwashed will instead "zdraste" speak "Salam-pravovernyy" or something in chinese. ymperialist obistsyanyy with "country obosrantsov"!
Ty maloletnyaya ysterychka.Fable is something about South-East nurtured Ukraine-not something more than a fable.And personally, directly to you (unfortunately I can not say it directly to you in person)-Honor Ukrainian, Ukraine and write with CAPS, southeast you ours.
No I do not want to say.In your words mean that everything that we're eating, coal, iron, ports and "Yuzhmash" :) Everyone makes their own, but the big question is what's the use of coal and iron goes to the treasury, and that the hands of the oligarchs.Why are you still confident and wealthy elementary unable to pay wages to miners, and rebuild and stroyity something other than "Donbas Arena"? I'll tell you why, from where absolutely nothing is independent, as in Ukraine.
Until thou filled dearly loved by stupid hordisttyu ton of coal and iron, the production and distribution of which do not have nothing, until not survive in a "scoop."And stop all the time to appeal to my so called "friends benderivtsiv" I have them right there.I live in Kiev, Ukraine and respect heroes, all heroes and those who drove the slaughter council (including 2 great grandfather), and those who had the courage to confront both the so-called "Socialist" regimes, such as Germany and the USSR.
@ NPRST45 Christmas With Christmas! Many Years our Ukraine!
Down lowbrow katsapske!Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes!
so you forgot to write that i moskali slut Catherine destroyed Zaporizhsku Jan, you forgot to write as moskalota 32-33gg. hunger starved miliony not vynyh people ...... you forgot to write about the terror that held the NKVD
hordyst so i tsiluy ass Muscovites ....Glory to Ukraine!
you unwashed Katsap nothing but their Kremlin-fascist "vyseriv" ​​vyperdity not you?? in thee Katsap, the channel on a different video one and the same "vysery", you numskull Finno-finu brain hvatae not write something else, like most of your Kremlin fascist freak! 
"Prykorpate", "sevostopol." Himself not ashamed? Well, about punctuation, I generally keep quiet ...
Who is to restore the death penalty for our dear palitikov?? Thumbs up!
Lions showed their true colors! A lvovyane proved that fight for the truth and not give all sorts of evil dishonor the memory of our grandfathers!
I am from Donetsk, fully support.
halimi natsyky ... There is no respect for people. Shame and shame ...
Nothing like Celebrate Sieving! and here we have their holidays.We do not have to climb and you climb, and then how long will the patience of the people.!
It should just shoot moskalnyat may then realize that nothing provocations do.Popryyizzhalo moskalske cattle and want something else to tell nits koncheni.!!
Sir, support.
Moskalnyat on shybenetsyu!Glory to Ukraine!!
How are you, moron, waving spamyty!
Oh purulent geek, pro-Moscow bastard, asshole padlyuchyh. You still will scream about "fascists"? So when your insides are long on the branches of trees to visyly as garlands for the New Year, and here you dzyakayesh a quiet and nationalists will not touch. So who are "fascists"?
Lord, you sho sho so here are talking about? and here the Russians and everything Russian. Hate on us to communism and everything that they Associated. To this we have their reasons. . . You do not need to come to us with their piece by red and irritate us. if you do not spring komunyaka or type Ukrainophobe our Tabachnik, then zayizdzhayte better to visit. From simple "Moskalyk" we share nothing. 
I am Ukrainian! I hate to Ukraine! Dull Country! All my Ukrainian idiots! Russia, forgive my stupid people! We all were once Russians, not Ukrainian!
"You shit, not samurai!" L.Poderev "Slavic.You shit, not Ukrainian!
Ukraine will not give any lyahu no Muscovite!! Who to contact us with guns come from weapons and perish! Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Heroes-independence fighters!
already burned Rotters katsapski not happened and never will! Even before you turn comes! Nezchuyetes as most will burn. 
time you abruptly silent while our silence over! Not bэndэramy and Banderas katsapskyy you ignoramus! You whole twentieth century obsyraly lives of our grandfathers, we survived, now it's your turn, and your turn! The end of your katsapsko-Jewish terror! 
You sho obkuryvsya? I know that in Odessa, people are more intelligent, at least in the Odessa that Ukraine ... You probably come from wrong in America. What kind dyru you talking about? How to I took from your budget for you to "assiduously" worked? Why Banderas kill ordinary Christians, if they themselves are simple Christians! You sho dybil? Think that you write a little assholes! Ukrainian never tell anyone not licked and ass licking will not. You're probably about himself wrote crest stupid ... Skiing further abruptly.
Read history, historical books - many find the answers, and I regret hand, many will not write, tell Everyone knows Banderists as rebels who fought against the Reds in the 20th years, killing invaders who came to destroy. For any occupant not come to do good for the occupied people, and just the opposite. So they shot, cut, burned, but in my country! They fought and died for an independent Ukraine, which has not lived to see! 
Dybil! Povchy story zamtsst to listen to all sorts hryen his promoskovkyh druzyey.
"Zzhech zapadnuyu Ukraine" (c) The following can only be shkolota! even with errors
Maybe better with Odessa Jews into the sea to drown?
high culture and tolerance of these young boys. Who taught them that?Svoboda. They are heroes SS "Galicia UPA, killers of women and children
This is not a free nationalist and member of the "Patriot of Ukraine"
The film was shot in many countries, in the memorable "Bandera" locations, including Stryi District, where family comes Bandera. By creating the painting was drawn Ukrainian historians,
In a heavy bout OUN leads us We all faithful sons of Ukraine terrible avengers our brothers We expect only a minute order Zhdem smashing enemies
Glory to Ukraine! Bandera Glory!Hello, Ukrainian! :)
If there is someone in this tape or disk - please share, thank you!
Ukraine was, is and will be!! And Har enemies yiyiyi dies!! 
Until the blood in the veins is boiling! We're still alive! To arms, brothers!
sylnyusche performance! elevates the spirit! Thank you, Kobzatoronto! as always on top!
Glory to Ukraine!Thank you!Beautifully sung!Heroes hall of fame!
Thank you for a wonderful song.
Please. Although thanks to the performers, I just outlined
Killed for what has not changed Ukraine.
Are we such a feat in charge of their lives for the Motherland 
Capable. Was the "Orange Revolution." Peremerzaly, ill ... Some overpowered and sore ... Eternal memory to them!Yanukovych and Kuzmin supported Putin demanded that the uniformed force acceleration Maidan.After winning the "orange commanders" began bickering for "trough". Thrown, merged ... the idea.Lutsenko planted nothing. And Tymoshenko is not any political prisoner.
Attempts by provozhlashenyya Ukrainian state July 5, 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. Basil and in 1942 was killed in a concentration camp AushvitsAndriya Mikhailovich Bandera - father Stephen, killed in NKVD Sisters Oksana and Martha-Mary in 1941, was exiled to Siberia 
July 5, 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested.As it went to Berlin with his wife of Yaroslav the three-month daughter Natasha to be close to her husband. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Doctor and Basil (philosophy graduate Lviv University in 1942 killed Polish guards in a concentration camp capo-AushvitsAndriya Mikhailovich Bandera - father Stephen, killed Soviets 
Very interesting! Banderists - zaturkani people devoid of imagination. Murdered and svoih and others ... But do not have the perspective ... Who would like to win? Army, which won half of Europe? It was necessary, or to flee to the West, or build a peaceful life. 
Words weak people who are zaturkani, deprived of imagination and prespektyvy
And what partisans voyut by the rules? And for some reason, where there were Banderas was not starvation but people en masse to support and maintain Bandera ... Give yourself the answer to all these questions and understand. 
Glory to Ukraine - Death to the enemies!Kozlomordyh on hillyaku!
Yes and current EU-Russia game it proves.
Uhrofiny about real Rosov nothing good can not tell!
as for us Stalin and Putin's current policy
Done!Properly taught that history ...
Normal moskalska agitation.View from Muscovy.Truth percent 10. Not worth the slightest consideration.Created to indoctrinate themselves Russians. Divide and conquer has not been canceled. Glory to Ukraine! Glory to Heroes!
In moyey great-grandmother was a similar story.Only their nerostrilyaly and hung by the feet, for what my grandfather went to the front. And when it came to the Red rations for CSKA, she saw that the officer who committed this deed. 
The Germans took the eggs, milk, tea, chickens, cows.The difference vlovlyuysh 
-) You have a diagnosis - fainting
If me, point-Perm, you can become banderovtsem, I would like эtym hordylsya. I speak Ukrainian with respect to the Ukrainian land, the Ukrainian people. I talk to mother, you do not understand. I NAvchasya with Hoshoyu Kutsenko in Lviv. Today I live in Newcastle (English) Born in Syktyvkar. On the Ukrainian people, your idol Lenin wrote that the Ukraine farmers cultivated fields steam engines. After the conquest of Ukraine Krasnaya armiyey fields desolated, and then began to handle them manually.  
I doubt that you will understand the language of international communication. If you have the desire, we can switch to English, German and Danish. At thy man without family or tribe, choice.
Interestingly and your family is.Many refugees after the revolution were among the founders OUN.Tak that blame on some westerners fail 
What do you know about shale gas without Google.And for the people According rd and in normal people.Since banderovtsi not voyovaly against the Russians, and zaUkrayinu.The pens were Russians
Banderists avoid clashes with soldiers of the Soviet army. Did not share the civilian population. They fought against the Soviet Punisher (NKVD, "bastards", "Stalin's Children", traitors).Banderists, unlike the Soviet partisans, no train is blown up. For thus could die Ukrainian.Banderists never, not once, not raping women. This only thing atheists communists and their collaborators.
Do you see a man, though i Muscovite, I respect these people ...
Little in Kievan Rus was called just teretoriya Moscow Ryazan ....Later started so call us vozvelychuyuchy Russia.
And you better paz where you live, do not worry for my mother-Ukraine ...
What do you not like Ukrainian. That you limit pereoraly, house taken away. Against Banderas act as they land on your people are not destroyed. What general principle for climb in a bubble, and then scream that infringe
But Poles did far escaped Kievan Rus' reached the Vistula.Glade Glade Kyiv were Polski.As Poles are Russian
Yes word and Siberia.In the end using double spacing, any, are missing.A gun back vitstupay rostril (this narahunok soldiers)
In the 33-th of these problems was, simply abolished the NEP policy and began collectivization.Objectionable created famine
In 33-th problem Entente was.All Europe only vyhodyla crisis.USSR dobomohy NEP even surpassed many.So the idea was to destroy holudu recalcitrant.
Tesau can be said about the Russians.A city of Kyiv Rus not, and Rusyns.And this is not the same thing
Only a hero can be a moron Zhukov!
This is a political hit.For mass killings could increase rebel forces
I assume the reasonable opinion.For notexists in the history of black and white 
Cossacks Rus (Rus of Sychy).Ha-ha-ha.Only the so-called Slavs on areas of modern Kiev.And you yourself have given yourself harekterystyku "krytychesky mыslyascheho man"
You know Roman ... There are Ukrainian, and are inhabitants of Ukraine ... They even Citizens ...Yes, but NOT UKRAINIAN! Having a passport of Ukraine, Ukrainian is not getting automatically ... So ... So as for the Scots, Vilyam Wallace-hero, but for the British occupiers-kind "Bandera" ... So for UKRAYINTSV-Bandera HERO ...And more ... By analogy ... :))) Deus.
Please pardon .. :) you are automatically a citizen of Ukraine, Ukrainian-NOT! Ukrainian same everywhere in Yenakiyevo, and Toronto, and the Green Wedge or Kuban ... And for each UKRAINIAN-Bandera HERO! But, for starters ... Ukrainian will not say "Yazigi" at home ... Requirements No! :))) For your short-sighted "event popyey" disregard .. :) Because, 'absolutely absurd attempt to insult me ​​:))) Deus.
Oh, yakoy òû vumnыy-like vutka.I'm not in òåáÿ sprashyval, hromodyanыn or Ukraynets, and sprashyvat not sobyrayus.Natsyky hrenovы.Basil's Day today, poydy nazhrys.
That "event popyey" then "poydi nazhris" ... :))) In purely something-say anything ... :))) So offer your favorite kind of "entertainment" ... :))) And this Your "natsyki" ... Well it's just jealousy ... GGG :) And the land around us dear, and the blood of our heroes' S sprayed and what you have? Bandit Akhmetov, proFFesor and full of "Shakhtar" Brazilians, that's still only "poyti popit" ... Sad ... Deus.
I have 2 grandfather were Banderas "How do I know the truth," "I live on this earth," I think it's you little you know about the history of Ukraine!90% of that HISTORY YOU "Muscovite" (otherwise YOU can not be named) takes (A SUBMIT it through small prize TRUTH) is a stereotype (memes, information viruses that OTUPLYAYUT mass consciousness!!!! !) And if you really want to know the truth, come to the city (west Ukraine) and hear her from living witnesses!!!PS NOT ALL AND TRUTH that is written
Oh dear ... And you in '51? O_o level of discussion you simply amazes "akademichnistyu"! :) Have a nice day and good night :) And the fact that there is no "bandэrlohov" ... Hmm ... That team and plays as the strongest club in the country, no Ukrainians ...: (Deus.
Well, you chudysh! :) The same team of Ukraine! As a team, even theoretically can hardly players from other countries :) And if you mean Milevsky, Aliyev and Devic ... So they then just in the team as the 5th wheel in a cart ... :))) And on the first cast-Yarmolenko and Linnet 100% Ukrainian, and rightly so, is not it?! :))) Deus.
Morons, better think about two million German women raped, soldiers' osvobodityelyami "! PS In Western Ukraine, the Germans behaved in Europe. So do not mely of "sex slaves" Mongols ... :) Deus.
Otherwise this is were published áû not fashystы!<--------- You unwarranted and unfounded attitude to the "fascists"! :))) I am trying to operate with numbers and facts. I know how German troops met in Lviv. I know from German archives of rape of Ukrainian Germans ... And I know who the real "people winner" ...: (... Deus.
Dear Alex! You did not just "surname" ... In thee-Ukrainian roots! "Just Familiya" are only Jews, and only for their benefit ... :) Overall You're right, but ... If Russian ideologues so try to distort the history of Ukraine (country of your ancestors, and thus make up your own! ) That must have for anyone "drat throat"! :))) With kind regards, Deus.
A look at history through the eyes of Russians - not respect themselves. You prove that your father and your mother are traitors and so on. For me they were patriots and "betrayed" only Moscow Tsars. One does not understand Russian pundits: the Ukrainian people looking at the history of his eyes. And whether in Ukraine friendly attitude to Russia? Kremlin he made his choice. In no friends.
Stepan Bandera was and will always be our hero in our hearts because they fought against the Russians!
Glory to Ukraine!Long live free Ukraine!And the Russians let povylazyat from our land!
totally agree with you while had the power which only dealt with and that was looking for a domestic enemies to somehow justify their policy of repression
41-45 were MEnshenkivtsi instead banderovtsi
BE so-called trough blocked, and so they went into the woods.I will not defend the actions narahunok rostrilyanyh innocent people (embodiments times on our teretoriy have tried as marginal, CHA, BE, mop all of them from sin)
Lenin also had Entrapment trough.BE on areas killing citizens of Poland, ideynyh Communists (mostly driven here for kolektyvizatsiy) how incredibly German army.On account of the Jews before you go into the woods so, then the policy changed many Jews even served in the UPA (b).So if there was funding, the result came out under control
and Moscow natsyky behave peacefully and tolerantly and Banderas just any riffraff
Instead, in Russians is their national hero, General Vlasov
and you can argue their point of view, probably a lot of idiot looking Russian television
Bandera - Hero of Ukraine!Glory to Ukraine!
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
We want to once again prove himself perhaps, that so much like our state, I Ukraine, Poland you. History of the country can now be interpreted in their own way, because so convenient and enjoyable for the soul. Somehow, no one wants to compromise. We must forgive and to recognize errors made policy. Today we have just sympathize thousand Poles who died in Smolensk, it hurts. Who is to blame? People? - No. And maybe the people which seam and supported criminal intent of their leaders.  
must be such people now, or how revlyutsiyu in 2004 to Yanukovych went away
Glory to Ukraine! Bandera Hero of heroes!
Such materials can build a program Ukraine's history in schools. Marvelous illustrate.
thanks, that reminds others of vzavtrashnye holiday!1.
Tadeusz Kostsyushko fought for the freedom of Poland, he was also a fascist?
good video, Glory to Ukraine!
For you were going to fight a battle Cossacks, Archers Sichoviyi, UPA insurgents ... Put little head brothers ridnenki To disappeared from the heart salty brine. For you land oblyvalasya blood For thee guns roared in the fields. You defended the holy love to come to light and righteous path. My Ukraine! You gave beauty and talent of my young years, And damn dog sneered, spat, tormented you, my Nenko holidays. My Ukraine, the people of my beloved brethren, Ukrainian, my countrymen! Quickly unite hearts aflame 
As you can not stop the river that breaking the ice in the spring rapidly carried to the sea, you can not stop the nation, waking up to life, breaking their kaydany.2. The night was long, but the morning approached, and we will not allow the freedom of all nations rays shone on our slave shackles and we divide them into sunrise svobody.3. We are small, but our voice is heard everywhere in Ukraine, and anyone who has not spidlene heart 5. The main reason misfortunes of our nation - the lack of nationalism Nicholas Mikhnovsky
Historical truth is the channel guide taras2802 yakyyYouTube closed 10,000,000 views paravda certainly not in vogue this video LITTLE hundreds POZYTVNYH REVIEWS
very warm and beautiful song I spodobalos.vid heart
July 5, 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (philosophy graduate of the University of Lviv) in 1942 killed Polish guards in a concentration camp capo-AushvitsAndriya Mikhailovich Bandera - father Stephen, was killed by the Soviets. Sisters Oksana and Martha-Mary in 1941, was arrested and exiled to Siberia
1. Nemo - unknown brat2. The Brothers Karamazov-Malenkaya Staya3. Scriabin - Yourself Ukraine
Let's face it: Stepan Bandera was imprisoned in June 1934, was under investigation in the prisons of Lviv, Krakow and Warsaw by the end of 1935. After he sat in prison Holy Cross Circle Kielce in Wronki circle Poznan and at Brest on the Bug to September 13, 1939.
He was in Lviv whole two weeks, the decision of foreign OUN goes to Krakow, and later began treating rheumatism in Slovakia. In July, 40-year organizes the revolutionary faction, real leadership over the structure of the OUN in Ukraine is in April 41 th during the Second Great Gathering OUN in Krakow. That fact has served as Captain of a little more than two months before his arrest by the Germans in July, 41-year. At will (house arrest) is obtained only at the end of the 44th.
In general, if a real impact on policy OUN activities of the organization in war can have people who sat between 34-44 years in prison and concentration camp for eight years and nine months?Which of the 34-year to the end of his life was in Ukraine is only two weeks? What almost all transmitted collaborators killed or arrested by the Germans or Russians? What is the last known letter to the leadership of the OUN sent in July '41 (and even the letter said he did not know whether the recipient still living)?
Let me quote a few paragraphs programmatic regulations April 41 th during the Second Great Gathering OUN in Krakow, as it is the only document that tells us what to really see if Ukraine Bandera, which had been his political beliefs when he was at liberty and had a real impact on the OUN:
I. Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists fighting for Ukrainian sovereign unified state, for the liberation of oppressed peoples Moscow Eastern Europe and Asia, according to a new fair system on the ruins of the empire of the USSR in Moscow. Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists continue utmost revolutionary struggle for the liberation of the Ukrainian people, regardless of all the territorial and political changes that have gone on in Eastern Europe.
2. Path to the attainment of our goals with the Ukrainian revolution in typ ¬ Dubcek Empire USSR together with the liberation struggle of the oppressed peoples of Moscow under the slogan: 
From these statistics?? From the sky taken?Bandera from 1941 to 1944year been prisoners in the concentration camp Sachsenhausen.Army killed at least 50,000 Ukrainians!
Glory to Stepan Bandera! Glory to Ukraine!
Ukraine have died nor glory, nor her freedom Upon us, fellow-Ukrainian, sure.Plies our vorozhenky like dew in the sun, and we shall rule, brothers, in a.Souls and bodies, we'll lay down our freedom and show that we belong to the Cossack!
In mid-December 1943 for refusing attack on Polish futor Dubrava (pov. Sarni, Volhynia) were killed by UPA Ukrainian: Felix Broda, Dementszuk Lion, Beetle and the fourth of the name Plato
For holy truth-Rogue will be missing, not rozkuye clad in your dark shackles people, not kill Evil son rozib not * a living heart for his country.Shevchenko 
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
Bandera you in our hearts! Since coming Ukrainian New Year! Who gave 
July 5, 1941 in Krakow Stepan Bandera was arrested. Bandera was originally held in jail, then - in the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, where he stayed until 1944. Brothers Alexander (Dr. economics) and Basil (philosophy graduate of the University of Lviv) in 1942 killed Polish guards in a concentration camp capo-AushvitsAndriya Mikhailovich Bandera - father Stephen, was killed by the Soviets. Sisters Oksana and Martha-Mary in 1941, was arrested and exiled to Siberia 
The film was shot in many countries, memorabilia 
Bandera hero ...Glory to Ukraine!
Whatever it was, but for Bandera Ukrainian hero.
good video, Glory to Ukraine!
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
Oh, and here zombie Banderas. Glory to take the floor
Glory to Ukraine!Stepan Bandera, Hero of Ukraine!!!!!! 
I have great respect for the hero Donetsk Ukraine Stepan Bandera! Glory to Ukraine! Stepan Bandera Glory, Glory Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA)!
I do not understand Polish, but Bandera - hero!
Bandera Hero of Ukraine! 
You Commie (russkyy nationalist?) I nerozumyyu you Ukrayiskoyu fun!
Glory to Ukraine! Thank all fallen for Ukraine!
UKRAINE - was, is and will be, and never forget our Heroes!GLORY hero!
In the Republic of Moldova - Chisinau ukraynska youth shanuэ memory PROVYDNYKA!
very good picnya but who does?
Verminsky and focus group :)
Bryhlyvyy film like other movies kdbistiv
The richest Jew (oligarch) = thief Ukrainian aktyvivHolosuvaty NO! Oligarchs. Vote NO! korumpovanyhpolitykiv. Force them to leave the Ukraine, not your money!Vote Christian nationalist politicians.Catholic, Orthodox unite under Jesus!Remember Cossacks!
In general, the murder of the hands UPAyu